1,The donning time for immersion suit

A. 2 --answer
B. 5
C. 3
D. 1

2. Before lifting a lifeboat from water, it must be ensured that

A. Bottom plug is shipped tight
B. Falls wire are clear and secured tightly (hooked securely) --answer
C. Engine is going astern
D. Sea anchor is streamed

3. Lifeboat should have

A. Two buoyant rescue quoits, attached to not less than 30 meters buoyant line --answer
B. Two buoyant rescue quoits, attached to not less than 15 meters buoyant line
C. One buoyant rescue quoits, attached to not less than 30 meters buoyant line
D. One buoyant rescue quoits, attached to not less than 15 meters buoyant line


4. Which one of the listed requirements regarding rigid life rafts does not correspond to present regulation. The rigid life raft shall be.

A. A manually controlled lamp visible for 2NM fitted at the top of the canopy
B. Floor preventing the ingress of water
C. All the entrances fitted with rigid boarding ramps for boarding life raft at sea  --answer
D. A manually controlled lamp fitted inside the life raft



5. Which one of the listed routine test and inspection of LSA is not required by the present regulation

A. Life boat engine to be run at least 3 minutes every week
B. Survival craft and rescue boats with launching appliances Shall be visually inspected weekly
C. Inspection of lifeboat equipment shall be carried out monthly
D. General emergency alarm to be tested daily  --answer

6. Checking and servicing life rafts as per PMS is ______

A. Once a year  --answer
B. Twice a year
C. Once in 5 years
D. Based on condition of life raft

7. When a person is floating in the water in group they should be in

A. HELP position
B. Huddle position  --answer
C. Yoga position
D. None of the above

8. Hand flares burn with bright red colour

A. True  --answer
B. False

9. Luminous intensity of hand flares should not be less than.

A. 15000 CD  --answer
B. 20000 CD
C. 25000 CD
D. None of these

10. In a free fall lifeboat instead of immersion suits TPAs are provide to all persons.

A. True
B. False  --answer

11. Life boat must be stowed in such a way that they can be launched in ______ minutes.

A. 5 minutes
B. 10 minutes  -answer
C. 15 minutes
D. 20 minutes

12. Lifeboat can be lowered when vessel is at ______ speed

A. 7 knots
B. 5 knots --answer
C. 4 knots
D. 10 knots

13. EPIRB full form

A. Emergency Position Indicating Radar Beacon
B. Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon  --answer
C. Emergency People Indicating Radio Beacon
D. Emergency Position Information Radio Beacon

14. The number of lifebuoys on a cargo ship of length over 200 meters is

A. 8
B. 10
C. 14  --answer
D. 12

15. MOB smoke float working duration

A. 3 minutes
B. 5 minutes
C. 15 minutes  --answer
D. 10 minutes

16. LTA is used as

A. Messenger line  --answer
B. Heaving line
C. Mooring line
D. Lashing line


17. A distress signal on deck

A. Pyrotechnics
B. Open fire
C. Flag NC
D. All of the above  --answer

18. EPIRB signal to be received by

A. MRCC  --answer
B. RCC
C. Coast Station
D. None of the above

19. How much water is in life raft for per person

A. 2 litres
B. 3 litres
C. 500 ml
D. 1.5 litres  --answer

20. Life jacket light shall have a source of energy capable of providing luminous intensity of _____ for a period of _____

A. 50 CD / 8 hrs
B. 75 CD / 8 hrs  --answer
C. 75 CD / 6 hrs
D. 50 CD / 6 hrs

21. Posters or signs shall be provided on or in the vicinity of survival craft and their launching controls. Which of the following requirements do not have to be launched according to present regulation ?

A. Use recommended signals
B. Give relevant instructions and warnings
C. Give information on survival craft capacity  --answer
D. Illustrate the purpose of controls and the procedures of operating the appliances

22. An enclosed lifeboat is fitted with self contained air support system, with the engine running what is the minimum period of time the air should remain safe and breathable.

A. 5 minutes
B. 10 minutes --answer
C. 15 minutes
D. 20 minutes

23. After the abandon ship survivors in a lifeboat must be given

A. One litre of watch each
B. 2 litre of water each
C. No water for first 24 hours  --answer
D. Half a litre water each

24. Once you hear the fire alarm proceed to ?

A. Stay in your cabin
B. Await further instruction
C. Proceed to muster station  -answer
D. None of the above

25. Child life jacket requirement in cargo vessel

A. 10%  --answer
B. 25%
C. 20%
D. 15%

26. Which of the listed requirements regarding the stowage of lifeboats and life rafts do not correspond to present regulation / ( SOLASII / 13.3-13.6)

A. A davit launched liferafts shall be stowed within reach of the lifting hooks unless adequate means of transport is provided
B. Life rafts intended for throw overboard launching shall be stowed amid ships secured to means for transfer to either side  --answer
C. Life raft shall be stowed as to permit manual release from their securing arrangements
D. Lifeboats shall be stowed attached to launching appliances


27. Every lifeboat is required to be launched and maneuvered in water at least once in _____ month

A. Every 2 month
B. Every month
C. Every 3 month  --answer
D. None of the above


28. Fire protected lifeboats when water borne should be capable of protecting its full complement when subjected to a continuous oil fire that envelops the boat for a period of not less than how many minutes ?

A. 10 minutes
B. 8 minutes  --answer
C. 15 minutes
D. 25 minutes

29. Which one of the listed requirements regarding lifeboat fittings do not correspond to present regulation ? all life boat shall be fitted with

A. Effective means for bailing or have self bailing arrangement
B. A buoyant lifeline bucketed around the outside of the lifeboat  --answer
C. Release device to enable forward painter to be released under tension
D. A remotely operated steering arrangement

30. The smoke detector (fire indicator) indicates fire in cargo hold loaded by general cargo. What first action should be taken.

A. Use the ship’s gas extinguishing central system to put out the fire
B. Inspect the scene before deciding the method to be used for fire fighting
C. Start the fire pump, open the hatches and start fire fighting by fire hoses
D. Close the ventilation system and other openings to hold in order to choke the fire  --answer

31. Which of the given requirements regarding manning and supervision of survival craft corresponds to the SOLAS regulations ?

A. There shall be at least five trained persons onboard, mustering and assisting untrained persons
B. Every lifeboat required to carry radio telegraph installation shall have a deck officer capable of operating the equipment assigned
C. A deck officer or certified persons shall be placed in charge of each survival craft to be used
D. Every motorised survival craft shall have a certified engineer assigned  --answer

32. Vessel 100 meters and over in length should have

A. 10 lifebuoys  --answer
B. 14 life buoys
C. 16 life buoys
D. 18 life buoys

33. The function of hydrostatic release unit is ______

A. Substitute for limit switch of gravity davits
B. To automatically unhook the lashing and release the life raft when the ship sinks  --answer
C. For releasing life raft in bad weather
D. For releasing life raft from sinking vessel

34. A ship in distress should have transmit the appropriate alarm signal followed by the distress call and message on one or all of the international distress frequencies is in accordance with the present recommendation

A. 550 KHz, 2367KHz and 121.5MHz
B. 500v, 2182 KHz and 156.8 MHz  --answer
C. 550 KHz,2182 KHz and 121.5 MHz
D. 500 kHz, 2367 KHz and 243 MHz

35. Lifebuoy self igniting lights shall be capable of burning for not less than

A. 2 hours  --answer
B. 4 hours
C. 45 minutes
D. 8 hours

36. Which of the listed requirements regarding the buoyant smoke signals do not correspond to present regulations. The buoyant smoke signal shall

A. Not be swamped in a seaway
B. Give a bright red light during the entire emission time  --answer
C. Continue to emit smoke when submerged in water for a period of 10 seconds under 10 cm of water
D. Emit smoke for at least 3 minutes when floating in calm water


37. Which one of the listed requirements regarding the launching and recovery arrangements for survival craft corresponds to the present SOLAS regulations ?

A. Means shall be available to prevent any discharge of water on to survival crafts during abandonment
B. Launching and recovery arrangements shall be such that the operator at all times observe the survival craft and lifeboats  --answer
C. Each lifeboat shall be provided with separate appliances which is capable of launching and recovering the lifeboat
D. Different type of launching and recovery arrangements shall be used for similar survival craft on board the ship

38. Which one of the listed requirements for cargo ships regarding personal life saving appliances does not correspond to present regulation ?

A. A ship with the length of 100m or less shall carry minimum 8 lifebuoy
B. Ships fitted with free fall lifeboat may carry thermal protective aids instead of immersion suits  --answer
C. Cargo ships or less than 85 meters in length shall as a general rule carry immersion suits for every person onboard
D. Self igniting lights for lifebuoys required on tankers shall be of an electric battery type

39. Lifeboats must be stowed in such a way so that theyare capable of being launched in _____ minutes

A. 15
B. 10  --answer
C. 5
D. 25

40. What are the characteristics of CO

A. It displaces oxygen
B. It is in itself not dangerous (not poisonous)
C. It is heavier than oxygen
D. All the above  --answer

41. Which one of the listed requirements regarding the lifeboats propulsion do not correspond to present regulation ?

A. Means shall be provided for recharging all engine radio and searching batteries
B. Water resistant instruction for starting and operating the engine shall be provided
C. The engine shall be provided with an electric power starting system with rechargeable energy batteries  --answer
D. Every lifeboats shall be powered by a compression ignition engine using fuel with a flame point of not less than 44

42. How should the painter of a life raft which is fitted with a hydrostatic release be secured to the ship

A. Secure directly to a secure point on the ship
B. It should not be secured anyway
C. Secure to the part of the hydrostatic release that is designed to break free
D. Secure via a weak link to a secure point on the ship  --answer


43. After 24 hours in life raft _____ litre of water per person per day

A. Half  --answer
B. One
C. Two
D. Three

44. Your vessel has been in a collision and you are not sure if your vessel is sinking or not, how will you handle this situation ?

A. Leave the vessel and stay not close than 5 nautical miles
B. Make sure that the lifeboat has an much bunker as possible and make your course for nearest land
C. Wait and see how the situation is developing
D. Search for missing persons, continue to monitor the situation and prepare for abandonment in ease it becomes necessary  --answer

45. Which one of the listed requirements regarding the stability of inflatable life rafts do not correspond to present regulation ? the stability of inflatable life raft shall be such that

A. When floating in the inverted position it can be righted by one person
B. In the event of capsizing it will automatically attain a position providing an above water escape  --answer
C. Only can be towed with full compliment at speed up to 3 knots
D. It is stable in a seaway when fully inflated and floating with the canopy uppermost

46. Which one of the listed requirements regarding partially enclosed lifeboats do not correspond to present regulation ? the canopy between rigid covers shall be

A. It can easily be erected by two persons
B. The occupants can escape in case of capsizing
C. It is insulated to protect equipments against heat and cold
D. It has windows to admit sufficient daylight inside the boat with the canopy closed  --answer

47. Which one of the listed requirements regarding abandon ship and fire drills do not correspond to present regulation ?

A. A training manual shall be provided in each room and recreation room are in each crew cabin
B. Each crew member of the crew shall be participate in at least one abandon ship drill and one fire drill every month
C. On all international voyages except short voyages muster of passengers shall take place within 24 hours after embarkation
D. On all short international voyages muster of passengers shall take place as soon as possible after departure  --answer

48. Radar reflector is provided in

A. Lifeboat
B. Life raft
C. Rescue boat
D. Life boat and life raft  --answer

49. Which of the following items shall be included in each fire drills

A. Checking closure mechanism for all air ventilator and other openings to accommodate engine rooms and cargo spaces
B. Checking the operation of watertight doors, fire doors, fire dampers and relevant communication equipments  --answer
C. Checking the fire wires
D. Checking operation of fire doors

50. Which of the following is considered as a general emergency onboard ?

A. Hull failure
B. Uncontrolled venting for cargo jettisoning on gas tankers
C. Loss of stability during cargo operations
D. All of the above  --answer

51. What is a hydrostatic release unit ?

A. An important part connected to the sea anchor
B. A unit for inflating the life raft
C. A unit which automatically releases a life raft at a depth of approx 4 meters  --answer
D. A unit which automatically release all securing when abandon the vessel

51. When firing the line throwing apparatus should be held at

A. 30 degree to the horizontal
B. 45 degree to the horizontal  --answer
C. 60 degree to the horizontal
D. 75 degree to the horizontal


53. Which of the following requirements regarding the number of life jackets provided do not correspond to present regulation ?

A. A number of lifejackets suitable for children equal at least 10% of the number of passengers on board or greater number as may be required to provide a lifejacket for each child
B. Number of lifejacket equal to at least 10% of the total number of passengers and crew to be placed in the vicinity of the muster station  --answer
C. A sufficient number of life jackets shall be carried for persons on watch
D. A sufficient number of life jackets for use at remotely located survival craft station

54. At least how often shall rescue boats be launched with their assigned crew and maneuvered in water ?

A. Every two weeks
B. Every one month
C. Every three months  --answer
D. Every week

55. Ship specific LSA information is provided in

A. SOLAS
B. MARPOL
C. Verbal Instruction
D. SOLAS Training Manual  --answer

56. How much faster does the human body lose heat in the water

A. 10
B. 20
C. 26  --answer
D. 36

57. Which of the listed requirements regarding enclosures of totally enclosed life boats do not correspond to the present regulations ?

A. Have automatic self righting abilities
B. Have self bailing arrangements  --answer
C. Have safety belts to be designed to hold a person of 100 kg securely in a place with the lifeboat in a capsized position
D. Automatically at and opposition in damaged condition providing an above water space for its occupants

58. Which of the following actions should be done before throwing this type of inflatable life raft just over the size

A. Inflate it on deck and then launched it clear below
B. Take the top off the container to enable life raft to inflate once in the water if all clear throw raft over side
C. Disconnect the painter and launch it checking that all is clear below
D. Check that the painter is made fast to a secure point and that the sea below is clear  --answer

59. According to LSA code chapter 7, regulation 7.1 the line throwing appliances, every line throwing appliances shall

A. Be capable of throwing a line with reasonable accuracy
B. Include not less than 4 projectiles each capable of carrying the line at least 230 meters in calm water
C. Include not less than four lines each having a breaking strength of not less than 2KN
D. All of the above  --answer

60. Which of the following requirements for immersion suits is correct

A. Donned in 2 minutes
B. Allow the wearer to jump from 4.5 meters
C. Allow the wearer to climb down a vertical ladder of 5 meters
D. All of the above  --answer

61. The number of lifebuoys on a cargo ship of length less than 100 meters is

A. 8  --answer
B. 6
C. 4
D. 10

62. Which one of the listed requirements regarding immersion suits do not correspond to the present regulations. The immersion suit shall be made of waterproof materials and constructed such that

A. It will have sufficient built in buoyancy to avoid the use of life jacket
B. It will cover the whole body with the exception of the face
C. It can be unpacked and donned without assistance within 2 minutes
D. It is provided with arrangements to reduce free air in the legs of the suit  --answer

63. Match the term immersion suit with most suitable answers given below

A. Davit launch
B. Navigation bridge
C. Protection against cold  --answer
D. HRU

64. The number of lifebuoys on a ship is depends on

A. What owners provide
B. Minimum of 10
C. Minimum of 15
D. Length of the vessel  --answer

65. Every inflatable life raft, inflatable life jacket and hydrostatic release units shall be serviced

A. Every 36 months
B. Every 18 months
C. Every 12 months  --answer
D. Every 24 months

66. What is the minimum number of channels required for the portable two way VHF,s for survival craft ?

A. Channel 6,12 and 16
B. Channel 6, 13 and 16  --answer
C. Channel 16 and 12
D. Channel 16 only

67. Inspection of LSA items on board shall be carried out

A. Weekly  --answer
B. Monthly
C. Yearly
D. Half yearly

68. How many SART transponders (SART) are required to be carried on board a ship for use in survival crafts?

A. one of each side of the ship
B. one in each lifeboat  --answer
C. 2 on new builds only. Old ships have to comply by Aug 95
D. Two on each side of the ship

69. The additional life jackets are kept in ?

A. Conspicuous places on deck or at muster station  --answer
B. Inside the bridge
C. On the bridge wings
D. In engine room

70. Which one of the listed requirements regarding rescue boat equipment do not correspond to present regulation ? the normal equipment of every rescue boat shall include

A. Immersion suits for the number of persons the boat id permitted to accommodate  --answer
B. A first aid outfit in a watertight case
C. Two buoyant rescue quoits attached to not less than 30m of line
D. An efficient radar reflector

71. A life raft should be inflate in

A. 3 to 4 minutes
B. 30 to 60 seconds  --answer
C. 1 to 2 minutes
D. 30 minutes

72. Life jackets have the following attached to it

A. Whistle and retro reflective tape
B. Light and whistle
C. SI light, whistle and retro reflective tape  --answer
D. None of the above

73. How much life raft capacity should be provided on a conventional cargo ship of more than 85 metre in length built after July 1986?

A. 100% of complement if it can be readily launched on either side of the ship, if it cannot readily launched on either side 150% must be provided on each side  --answer
B. 25% of the compliment on each side of the ship
C. 75% of the compliment on each side of the ship
D. 50% of the compliment on each side of the ship


74. What maneuver should be carried out in case of a fire on board a ship ?

A. Let the ship follow the wind in order to reduce the oxygen supply
B. Keep the stem up against the wind if possible
C. Continue on course and speed
D. Reduce speed and if possible keep the fire zone to the leeward of the ship  --answer

75. The master is responsible for all crew participating in monthly emergency drills. If 25% of the crew or more has not participated in such drill during the last month, what is the time limit to conduct such a drill after the vessel has left a port

A. Within 6 hours
B. Within 12 hours
C. Within 24 hours  --answer
D. Within 36 hours

76. Maximum length of a rescue boat

A. 2.5 meter
B. 3.8 meter
C. 5.8 meter
D. 8.5 meter  --answer

77. Falls used in launching shall be renewed not later than how many years ?

A. 2.5 years
B. 1 years
C. 3 years
D. 5 years  --answer

78. For how long and at what speed is a fully loaded lifeboat designed to operate in calm weather ?

A. 6 knots for 24 hours  --answer
B. 4 knots for 48 hours
C. 3 knots for 24 hours
D. 10 knots for 24 hours

79. Lifeboat service have to be done by the personnel trained and authorized by the manufacturer for every _____ years

A. 3
B. 4
C. 5  --answer
D. 6

80. The muster list shall show the duties assigned to the different members of the crew, which of the given duties do not necessarily have to be included in the muster list

A. Manning of fire particles assign to deal with fires
B. Clearing escape routes  --answer
C. Preparation and launching of survival crafts
D. Muster of passengers

81. Equipments of lifeboat

A. Buoyant oars
B. Sea anchor
C. Radar reflector
D. All of the above  --answer

82. The number of lifebuoys on a cargo ship of less than 200 meters in

A. 6
B. 8
C. 12  --answer
D. 16

83. Once you hear General Emergency Alarm proceed to

A. Muster station  --answer
B. Sleep in cabin
C. Wait for further information
D. None of the above

84. What is MOB (man in board) signal

A. Continuous ringing of ships whistle
B. Three long blast on ships whistle  --answer
C. Seven shot blast followed by one long blast
D. None of the above

85. Lifebuoy light shall have a source of energy capable of providing luminous intensity of ____ for a period of ____.

A. 1 CD/ 1 hour
B. 2 CD/ 2 hours  --answer
C. 3 CD/ 3 hours
D. 4 CD/ 4 hours

86. Which of the following requirements for life jacket is correct

A. Minimum requirements of 8
B. Minimum requirements of 10
C. Minimum requirements of 12
D. Donned within 1 minute  --answer

87. Luminous intensity of rocket parachute flare should be not less than

A. 15000 CD
B. 20000 CD
C. 25000 CD
D. 30000 CD  --answer

88. Life buoy outer diameter should be not more than

A. 200 mm
B. 400 mm
C. 600 mm
D. 800 mm  --answer

Q. Life raft must be stowed in such a way that they can be launched within ____ minutes

A. 10
B. 5  --answer
C. 15
D. 12

89. Requirements of child life jacket on cargo ship is _____

A. 20%
B. 10%  --answer
C. 30%
D. 15%

91. How much water for per person in lifeboat

A. 1 litre
B. 2 litres of water each
C. 3 litres  --answer
D. 750 ml

92. What is the full form of SART

A. Search and rescue radio transponder
B. Search and rescue radar transponder  --answer
C. Search and rescue radio transmitter
D. Search and risk radio transponder

93. The number of hand flares in life raft are _____

A. 4
B. 6  --answer
C. 7
D. 8

94. The donning time of life jacket is _____ minutes

A. 1  --answer
B. 2
C. 3
D. 4

95. What is the full form HRU

A. Hydrostatic radar unit
B. Hydrostatic radio unit
C. Hydrostatic release unit  --answer
D. None of the above

96. After launching an inflatable raft, it should be kept dry from inside by ______

A. Opening the automatic drain plug
B. Draining the water pockets
C. Using the electric bilge pump
D. Using the bailer and cellulose sponge  --answer

97. Generally what is used to inflate life rafts

A. Non-Toxic gas  --answer
B. Hydrogen
C. Oxygen
D. Helium

98. The number of lifebuoy on a passenger ship of length above 240 meter.

A. 14
B. 16
C. 24
D. 36  --answer

99. The number of rocket parachute flares in lifeboat are

A. 3
B. 4  --answer
C. 5
D. 6

100. How many rocket parachute available on bride

A. 6
B. 8
C. 10
D. 12  --answer

101. The visibility range of a parachute flare at night is approximately

A. 8 nautical miles
B. 10 nautical miles
C. 15 nautical miles
D. 25 nautical miles  --answer

102. Which of the listed requirements do not correspond to present regulations. The life raft shall have.

A. Manually controlled lamp visible of at least two miles fitted at the top of the canopy
B. All entrances fitted with rigid boarding ramps for boarding the life raft at sea  --answer
C. Floor preventing the ingress of water
D. Manually controlled lamp fitted inside the life raft


103. If the ship sinks the water pressure will within _____ metre activate the sharp knife which cuts the painter of the life raft

A. 3
B. 4  --answer
C. 2
D. 5

104. Which equipment is provided in a life raft to help you keep warm in cold weather

A. The floor of a life raft has a second layer which can be inflated to give additional insulation from the cold
B. The floor of the raft has a second layer which can be inflated to help insulation in addition to the TPA  --answer
C. At least 10% of the life raft compliment with a minimum two thermal protective aids are provided
D. Thermal protective aids (TPA) for each person

105. Which of the listed requirements do not correspond to the present regulation regarding weak link ? weak links shall

A. Be of sufficient strength to permit inflation of the life raft
B. Release the life raft at a depth of not more than 4 meters
C. Not break by force required to full the painter from the life raft container
D. Break under a strain of approximate 2.2 KN  --answer

106. Luminous intensity of hand flares should not be less than

A. 15000 CD  --answer
B. 20000 CD
C. 25000 CD
D. None of the above

107. Which of the following requirements for immersion suit is correct

A. Donned in 2 minutes
B. Allow the wearer to jump from 4.5 meter
C. Allow the wearer to climb down a vertical ladder of 5 meter
D. All of the above  --answer

108. In a free fall lifeboat, instead of immersion suits TPA is provided to all persons

A. True
B. False  --answer

109. What is fire wire.

A. Wire for pulling burning ships off the pier  --answer
B. Wire for handling fire bucket
C. Wire for pulling fire hoses up to the top bridge
D. Wire for securing smoke divers

110. The function of hydrostatic release unit (HRU) is

A. Substitute for limit switch off gravity davits
B. To automatically invoke the lesson and release the life raft when the ship sinks  --answer
C. For releasing the life raft in bad weather
D. For releasing the life raft from sinking vessel

111. The “off-load” release system on a survival craft is designed to be activated _____

A. When there is no load on the cable  --answer
B. When there is a load on the cable
C. Only when the doors are closed
D. When the engine is started

112. Which channel is designated as the VHF follow-on communications channel and is required in all portable survival craft equipment?

A. Channel 6
B. Channel 13
C. Channel 16  --answer
D. Channel 70

113. The backup system on an electric start survival craft is a _____.

A. Hydraulic system
B. Pneumatic system
C. Spare battery
D. Hand crank  --answer

114. How many chapter are there in SOLAS

A. 14  --answer
B. 7
C. 12
D. 10

115. How many VHF survival craft transceivers are required aboard passenger ships ?

A. 2
B. 3  --answer
C. 4
D. 5

116. What is the requirement for passengers ships having lifeboats ?

A. Enough for 80% of persons onboard, plus life raft for crew
B. Enough for all passengers on board, plus life raft for 25% of passengers  --answer
C. Enough for crew, plus 80% life rafts for passengers
D. Enough for 80% crew, plus life raft for passengers

117. One of the first action to be taken by survivors when they have boarded an inflatable life raft is to

A. Steam the sea anchor
B. Take an anti-seasickness pill  --answer
C. Open the pressure relief valve
D. Drink at least one can of water

118. With the immersion suit on, you are expected to climb up and down vertical ladder at least _____

A. 5 meter or 16 feet  --answer
B. 4 meter or 13 feet
C. 4.5 meter or 15 feet
D. None of these

119. When launching a lifeboat, frapping lines should be rigged _____

A. Before the grips are released
B. Before the boat is moved from the davits
C. At the embarkation deck  --answer
D. After the boat is in the water

120. If an inflatable life raft is to be released manually, where should the operating cord be attached before throwing the raft overboard ?

A. Do not attach the cord to anything but throw it overboard with the rt container
B. Attach the cord to a fixed object on the ship  --answer
C. You should stand on the cord
D. Attach the cord to the special pad eye on the raft davit launcher

121. When launching lifeboat, the tricing pendants should be released _____

A. Before the boat is lowered from the stowed position
B. As the best fall blocks break clear of the davit head
C. Before the boat is lowered from the embarkation level  --answer
D. After the boat is released into the water

122. The abandon ship command is given by

A. 7 short blast and 1 long blast
B. Verbal order by the master  --answer
C. More than 7 short blasts
D. 1 long blast of at least 10 seconds

123. Wearing an immersion suit you must be able to jump from a height of 4.5 meter or 15 feet into the water, do you agree ?

A. Yes  --answer
B. No
C. Only under emergency
D. Only when rescuing someone from the water

124. The survival craft engine is filled with

A. Kerosene
B. Unleaded gasoline
C. Diesel oil   --answer
D. Liquefied gas


125. HELP position stands for

A. Heat Exchange Lessening posture  --answer
B. Heat Escape Lessening Period
C. Heat Exchange Lessening Point
D. All the above

126. Hydrostatic release unit of a life raft shall

A. Be provided with a painter system with a breaking strength of not more than 2.2 KN
B. Be constructed of compatible material to prevent malfunction
C. Be constructed as to prevent release by seas washing over the unit
D. All of the above  --answer

127. Match the term LTA with suitable answers given below

A. Messenger line
B. Four projectiles
C. 230 m
D. All the above  --answer

128. Which one of the listed requirements regarding the stowage of a survival craft corresponds to present SOLAs regulations ? each survival craft shall be

A. Wherever space is available
B. In a state of readiness so that two crew members can prepare for embarkation and launching in less than 5 minutes  --answer
C. On the starboard side of the ship
D. In a secure and sheltered position and protected from damage by fire or explosion

129. How can a person on board a ship familiarise himself with the use of life saving appliances ?

A. LSA code
B. Maintenance manual
C. Training manual  --answer
D. By roaming around the ship


130. Which code has the technical provisions of carriage requirements for life saving appliances

A. FFA code
B. LSA code  --answer
C. FTP code
D. FSS code

131. Lifebuoys are subjected to which of the following tests ?

A. Drop test
B. Fire test
C. Floatation test
D. All of the above  --answer

132. Which of the listed requirements regarding life saving appliances do not correspond to present regulation ?

A. All prescribed life saving appliances shall be resistant to deterioration where exposed to sunlight
B. All prescribed life saving appliances shall be made of non-combustible or fire retardant material  --answer
C. All prescribed life saving appliances shall be of a highly visible colour on parts where this will assist detection
D. All prescribed life saving appliances shall be fitted with retro reflective material which will assist in detection

133. MOB marker buoy is used in case

A. The ship is on fire
B. When some crew member fall into the sea  --answer
C. When the ship is sinking
D. When some crew had an injury

134. How much water would you allow per person as officer in charge of the lifeboat, following an abandon ship operation ?

A. Nothing for the first 24 hours, then ¼ liters per day
B. ½ liters immediately followed by ¼ liters per day
C. Nothing for the first 48 hours, then ¼ liters per day
D. Nothing for the first 24 hours, then ½ liters per day  --answer

135. The maximum capacity of the life boat is

A. 20
B. 150  --answer
C. 30
D. 100


136. Up to two thirds of a survival crafts required drinking water may be produced by a manually-powered reverse osmosis desalinator if it can be done in

A. 12 hours
B. 1 day
C. 2 days  --answer
D. 4 days

137. Lifebuoys self-igniting lights shall be capable of burning for not less than

A. 4 hours
B. 45 minutes
C. 2 hours  --answer
D. 8 hours

138. Which one of the listed requirements regarding the use of an immersion suit do not correspond to present regulation ? the suit shall permit the wearer

A. Jump from a height of 4.5 m into the water without being injured or damaging the suit
B. Climb up and down vertical ladders from the survival craft embarkation point to the water
C. Perform normal duties during abandonment  --answer
D. Swim a short distance through the water and board a survival craft

139. The survival craft's engine is fueled with_____.

A. Kerosene
B. Unleaded gasoline
C. Diesel oil  --answer
D. Liquefied gas

140. Visual inspections of survival craft on offshore drilling units, to ensure operational readiness, must be conducted at least once a _____.

A. Week  --answer
B. Month
C. Quarter
D. Year 

141. The searchlight on a survival craft must be capable of operating 3 hours continuously or 6 hours intermittently if operated in cycles of _____.

A. 5 minutes on and 10 minutes off
B. 10 minutes on and 5 minutes off
C. 15 minutes on and 5 minutes off  --answer
D. 15 minutes on and 10 minutes off

142. In which year was the first version of the SOLAS was adopted?

A. 1929
B. 1914  --answer
C. 1948

143. Batteries for VHF Survival Craft Transceivers must have sufficient capacity to operate for a minimum of

A. 4 hours
B. 6 hours
C. 8 hours  --answer
D. 12 hours

144. The air cylinder bottles in the survival craft should be refilled with

A. Oxygen
B. Nitrogen
C. Compressed air  --answer
D. Nitrogen and oxygen

145. If water is rising in the bilge of a survival craft, you should First_____ .

A. Abandon the survival craft
B. Check for cracks in the hull
C. Shift all personnel to the stern
D. Check the bilge drain plug  --answer

146. You must evacuate a seaman by helicopter lift. Which statement is TRUE?

A. The ship should be stopped with the wind off the beam while the helicopter is hovering overhead.
B. The basket or stretcher must not be allowed to touch the deck.
C. The tending line of the litter basket should be secured to the ship beyond the radius of the helicopter blades.
D. The hoist line should be slack before the basket or stretcher is hooked on.  --answer

147. After a hull damage, your ship has taken in water and has heeled to Port. Water level in the severed port side hold is not rising anymore. Up to what degrees of list could you safely make to the nearest port in calm waters?

A. Up to 15 degrees of list  --answer
B. Depends on the Stability Data of the vessel
C. Depends on the sea conditions
D. Other adjacent tanks can get damaged to create a dangerous situation

148. In case of grounding of the ship, how would you know that such a thing has happened?

A. Ship has listed dangerously
B. Ship has sudden increase of speed
C. Ship has a wrong position on the chart  --answer
D. The engine RPM has dropped

149. A person has fallen overboard and is being picked up with a rescue boat. If the person appears in danger of drowning, the rescue boat should be maneuvered to make

A. An approach from leeward
B. An approach from windward
C. The most direct approach  --answeer
D. An approach across the wind


150. IAMSAR provides guidelines for a common aviation and maritime approach to organizing and providing _____ services.

A. Oil spill clean up
B. Search and Rescue  --answer
C. Salvage

151. Tankers are built for safety in facing an emergency such as collision etc. Spot the wrong answer from the list below.

A. All tankers are built with a double skin/ hull to safeguard the vessel in case of a collision accident
B. Tankers are built with many subdivision of compartments to avoid free surface effects
C. Tankers are broader and thus have better stability
D. Tankers are high speed ships which can move away from an emergency spot quickly  --answer

152. What is meant by the term "broaching to"?

A. Having the vessel head toward the sea
B. Running before a sea
C. Being turned broadside to the sea  --answer
D. Having the vessel filled with water

153. Which will be the worst of emergencies that you would face, if that happens?

A. Flooding
B. Collision
C. Grounding
D. Foundering  --answer

154. If you reach shore in a life raft, the first thing to do is

A. Drag the raft ashore and lash it down for shelter  --answer
B. Find some wood for a fire
C. Get the provisions out of the raft
D. Set the raft back out to sea so someone may spot it

155. The survival capsule is manufactured with fire retardant_____.

A. Foam
B. Marine plywood
C. Steel
D. Fiberglass  --answer

156. Thermal protective aids are required for what percentage of the persons a survival craft is equipped to carry?

A. 10%  --answer
B. 50%
C. 75%
D. 100%

157. Examples of Lifesaving Appliances (LSA) include:

A. Scissors, duct tape, bandages
B. Lifeboat, immersion suit, life jacket  --answer
C. Fire doors, ventilation systems, fire extinguisher
D. Flares, fire extinguisher, life jacket

158. How many chapters is the present SOLAS divided into?

A. Fourteen Chapters  --answer
B. Seven chapters
C. Twelve chapters

159. If the hydrostatic release mechanism for an inflatable life raft is not periodically serviced and becomes inoperative, it will NOT_____.

A. Set the water lights on immersion
B. Release the dye-maker for the life raft
C. Free the life raft from a sinking vessel  --answer
D. Break the seal on the carbon dioxide cylinder

160. You are picking up a person who has fallen overboard. A rescue boat should be maneuvered to normally approach the victim with the_____.

A. Victim to leeward  --answer
B. Victim to windward
C. Wind on your port side
D. Wind on your starboard side

161. Suddenly you experience a power outage on your ship causing a blackout. The engines are automatically stopped and you are in a busy waterway. Are you under a dangerous emergency and there are chances that you are looking at a serous accident ahead?

A. It is a moderate emergency situation  --answer
B. Ship's emergency generator will start and restore emergency power automatically
C. Ship's Aux Generators can be re-started with emergency power to restore electrical power
D. If the emergency generator has not started up, you do have a danger in hand


162. Under what condition could you still perish when on a liferaft at calm waters? Spot the wrong answer.

A. Liferaft is likely to have some water at the bottom and can be cold
B. You may not be wearing personal protective gears to keep you warm
C. There might be a sudden swell due to wind to capsize the raft  --answer
D. You are lost for a few days and none have been able to locate the raft

163. Cargo vessels being navigated, and fitted with emergency lighting and power systems, shall have their emergency systems tested at least once

A. A month
B. In each week  --answer
C. In every 6 months
D. In every 12 months

164. In case of fire, boundary cooling is carried out

A. To restrict the fire from spreading  --answer
B. To extinguish the fire by cooling the surroundings
C. To keep the firemen and the crew cool
D. To protect the paint on the bulkheads outside

165. A rescue helicopter's hoist area should have a radius of at least_____.

A. 6 feet of clear deck
B. 10 feet of clear deck
C. 25 feet of clear deck
D. 50 feet of clear deck  --answer

166. When a person enters an enclosed space

A. One person should remain outside to deal with an emergency  --answer
B. A rescue team must be kept standing by  
C. A stretcher should be kept outside compartment
D. Lifelines should be available

167. You are steaming in a heavy gale and find it necessary to heave to. Under most circumstances, this is best done by_____.

A. Stopping the engines and drifting beam to the seas
B. Going slow astern and taking the seas on the quarter
C. Taking the sea fine on the bow and reducing the speed to the minimum to hold that position  --answer
D. Maintaining speed and taking the sea broad on the bow

168. If the water level is rising in the bilge of a survival craft, you should first _____.

A. Increase the speed of the survival craft
B. Shift all personnel to the bow
C. Shift all personnel to the stern
D. Check the bilge drain plug  --answer

169. Which chapter of the SOLAS deals with life saving appliances and arrangements for ships?

A. Chapter 4
B. Chapter 1
C. Chapter 3  --answer

170. On a passenger ship a lifeboat drill must be conducted within

A. 24 hours of embarkation  --answer
B. 18 hours of embarkation
C. 12 hours of embarkation
D. 6 hours of embarkation

171. What is the biggest danger to life when your vessel has collided with another ship?

A. Oil Pollution
B. Bilging of Compartments
C. Damage to the ship
D. Possibility of Capsizing  --answer

172. If you suddenly notice a fire outside your cabin, what actions to be taken

A. Run to nearest telephone and call bridge
B. Wait for the fire detectors to activate, then go to muster station
C. Shout 'fire fire', activate the nearest fire alarm button, extinguish if possible  --answer
D. Use the portable extinguisher first to put it off

173. On a passenger ship a lifeboat drill must be conducted within

A. 24 hours of embarkation  --answer
B. 18 hours of embarkation
C. 12 hours of embarkation
D. 6 hours of embarkation

174. When a person enters an enclosed space

A. One person should remain outside to deal with an emergency  --answer
B. A rescue team must be kept standing by
C. A stretcher should be kept outside compartment
D. Lifelines should be available

175. Usually the most gentle way of riding out a severe storm on a larger vessel is_____.

A. Head on at slow speeds
B. Hove to
C. Running before the seas  --answer
D. To rig a sea anchor

176. A person has fallen overboard and is being picked up with a rescue boat. If the person appears in danger of drowning, the rescue boat should be maneuvered to make

A. An approach from leeward
B. An approach from windward
C. The most direct approach  --answer
D. An approach across the wind

177. If your life raft is to leeward of a fire on the water, you should First _____.

A. Cut the line to the sea anchor  --answer
B. Paddle away from the fire
C. Splash water over the life raft to cool it
D. Get out of the raft and swim to safety

178. If more than one liferaft is manned after the vessel has sunk,_____.

A. Each raft should go in a different direction in search of land
B. The possibility of a search aircraft finding you is increased by spreading out
C. Reduce the number of liferafts by getting as many people as possible into as few rafts as possible
D. Tie each of the rafts together and try to stay in a single group  --answer

179. When retrieving the survival craft, the helmsman should instruct the crewman to_____.

A. Check the fuel level
B. Open the doors
C. Take the life preservers off
D. Check that hooks are fully locked in place  --answer

180. After the boat is at the top of the davit heads, the davit arms begin moving up the tracks and are stopped by the _____.

A. Hoist man
B. Limit switch  --answer
C. Brake handle
D. Preventer bar

181. Limit switches on gravity davits should be tested by

A. The engineers, from a panel in the engine room
B. Shutting off the current to the winch
C. Pushing the switch lever arm while the winch is running  --answer

Q. If you must enter the water on which there is an oil fire, you Should _____.

182. Protect your lifejacket by holding it above your head
B. Enter the water on the windward side of the vessel  --answer
C. Keep both hands in front of your face to break the water surface when diving head first
D. Wear very light clothing

183. The command "Oars" means to _____.

A. Lift the oars to a vertical position
B. Complete the stroke and bring the oars horizontal, blades feathered  --answer
C. Place the oars in the boat with blades forward
D. Place the oars in the rowlocks directly from the boated position

184. You have abandoned ship in rough weather. After picking up other survivors in your liferaft, what should you do next?

A. Close up the entrances.  --answer
B. Top up the buoyancy tubes.
C. Prepare for the arrival of rescue units.
D. Decide on food and water rations.

185. When a rescue vessel approaches a survival craft in heavy seas, the person in charge of the survival craft should _____.

A. Tie up to the rescue vessel
B. Transfer only those personnel who are not seasick
C. Wait for calmer weather before transferring personnel  --answer
D. Transfer all personnel immediately

186. The sea painter of an inflatable liferaft should be

A. Free running on deck
B. Flaked out next to the case
C. Secured to a permanent object on deck via a weak link  --answer
D. Stowed near the raft

187. The governor brake on a lifeboat winch shall be capable of controlling the speed of lowering a fully equipped lifeboat from a cargo ship at _____.

A. A safe speed only specified
B. Not less than 120 feet per minute
C. Not more than 120 feet per minute  --answer
D. Not more than 90 feet per minute

188. When lowering lifeboats in heavy seas, a good practice is to rig frapping lines _____.

A. On only the forward falls
B. On only the after falls
C. With a lead of about 45 degrees to the boat  --answer
D. From the falls to the main deck of the vessel

189. If help has not arrived in 10-12 hours after abandoning a vessel in a rescue boat, you should

A. Go in one direction until the fuel runs out
B. Steer a course for the nearest land
C. Steer a course for the nearest sea lane
D. Shut down the engines if installed and put out the sea anchor  --answer

190. An inflatable liferaft is hand-launched by

A. Pulling a cord
B. Cutting the wire restraining bands
C. Removing the rubber packing strip
D. Throwing the entire container overboard  --answer

191. In launching a lifeboat, when should the tricing pendants be released?

A. Before the boat is lowered from the stowage position
B. As soon as the boat- fall blocks clear the davit head
C. After the limit switch is activated
D. Once the bowsing tackle is engaged  --answer

192. In the first 24 hours after abandoning a vessel, water should be given only to personnel who are

A. Thirsty
B. Sick or injured  --answer
C. Wet
D. Awake

193. A life line must be connected to the liferaft

A. At the bow
B. At the stern
C. Un the middle
D. All around  --answer

194. Seven short blasts and one long blast of the ship's whistle and the same signal on the general alarm bell is sounded, this signal indicates _____.

A. Fire Stations
B. Boat stations  --answer
C. Man overboard
D. Dismissal from drills

195. You have abandoned your vessel. You are in a liferaft and have cleared away from your vessel. One of your FIRST actions should be to _____.

A. Take measures to maintain morale
B. Prepare and use radio equipment
C. Identify the person in charge of liferaft
D. Search for survivors  --answer

196. It is important to test lifeboat davit limit switches on a regular basis to prevent _____ .

A. Damage to the winch motor
B. The possibility of the davit wires parting when the lifeboat is being retrieved and stowed in its davit  --answer
C. Damage to the releasing gear
D. The lifeboat from being lowered at an unsafe speed

197. Which of the devices listed will prevent an inflated life raft from being pulled under by a vessel which sinks in water over 100 feet deep?

A. The hydrostatic release
B. A shear pin
C. A Rottmer release
D. A weak link in the painter  --answer

198. After having thrown the liferaft and stowage container into the water, the liferaft is inflated by_____.

A. Pulling on the painter line  --answer
B. Forcing open the container which operates the CO2
C. Hitting the hydrostatic release
D. Using the hand pump provided

199. Your ship is sinking rapidly. A container containing an inflatable life raft has bobbed to the surface upon functioning of the hydrostatic release. Which action should you take?

A. Cut the painter so it will not cpull the life raft container down.
B. Swim away from the container so you will not be in danger as it goes down.
C. Take no action because the painter will cause the life raft to inflate and open the container.  --answer
D. Manually open the container and inflate the life raft with the hand pump.

200. When launching an open lifeboat by falls, the boathooks should be _____.

A. Secured forward and aft where readily available
B. Secured amidships where they will not hinder the personnel
C. Used for fending off  --answer
D. Used for picking up survivors in the water

201. To turn over a life raft that is floating upside down, you should pull on the _____.

A. Canopy
B. Manropes
C. Sea painter
D. Righting strap  --answer

202. Which of the following statements defines the purpose of the lifeboat gravity davit limit switch?

A. To cut off power when the davits hit the track safety stops.
B. To stop the davits from going too fast.
C. To cut off power when the davits are about 12 inches from the track safety stops when hoisting.  --answer


203. The sea painter of a rescue boat should be led

A. Forward and outboard of all obstructions
B. Forward and inboard of all obstructions
C. Up and down from the main deck
D. To the foremost point on the vessel


204. Limit switches are located on the survival craft winch systems to _____.

A. Stop the winch just before the craft reaches final stowage position  --answer
B. Limit the amount of cable on the drum
C. Limit the ascent rate
D. Stop the winch in case the craft weighs too much

205. A liferaft which has inflated bottom-up on the water

A. Should be righted by standing on the carbon dioxide cylinder, holding the righting straps, and leaning backwards  --answer
B. Should be righted by standing on the life line, holding the righting straps, and leaning backwards
C. Will right itself when the canopy tubes inflate
D. Must be cleared of the buoyant equipment before it will right itself

206. If you have to jump into the water when abandoning ship,your legs should be _____ .

A. Spread apart as far as possible
B. Held as tightly against your chest as possible
C. In a kneeling position
D. Extended straight down and crossed at the ankles  --answer

207. What is one of the FIRST actions you should take after abandoning and clearing away from a vessel?

A. Identify the person in charge.  --answer
B. Gather up useful floating objects.
C. Prepare for arrival of rescue units.
D. Arrange watches and duties.

208. The centrifugal brake mechanism incorporated in a lifeboat handling winch is intended to _____.

A. Automatically stop the boat if electric power fails
B. Mechanically stop the boat when the hand brake fails
C. Hold the load suspended during lowering operations
D. Automatically control the speed of lowering by gravity  --answer

209. In good weather, you should deploy the sea anchor from the liferaft to _____.

A. Keep the liferaft from capsizing
B. Navigate against the current
C. Keep personnel from getting seasick
D. Stay in the general location  --answer

210. What prevents an inflated liferaft from being pulled under by a vessel which sinks in water over 100 feet in depth?

A. The hydrostatic release
B. Nothing
C. A Rottmer release
D. The weak link in the painter line  --answer

211. The 'off-load' release system on a survival craft is designed to be activated ______.

A. When there is no load on the cable  --answer
B. When there is a load on the cable
C. Only when the doors are closed
D. When the engine is started

212. The sea painter is secured in the lifeboat by

A. A turn around a forward thwart with a toggle pin thru the eye  --answer
B. A knot around a thwart
C. An eye splice placed over one of the hooks of the releasing gear

213. Which sequence is correct when launching a lifeboat stowed in gravity davits?

A. Release gripes, turn on emergency disconnect switch, release frapping lines
B. Release tricing pennants, turn on emergency disconnect switch, release frapping lines
C. Operate limit switches, release gripes, lift brake
D. Release gripes, lift brake, release tricing pennants  --answer

214. To launch a liferaft by hand, you should ____.

A. Cut the casing bands, throw the raft over the side and it will inflate by itself
B. Detach the operating cord, throw the liferaft over the side and it will then inflate
C. Cut the casing bands, throw the raft over the side and pull the operating cord
D. Throw the liferaft over the side and pull the operating cord  --answer

215. Immediately after abandoning a vessel, lookouts should be posted aboard liferafts to look for

A. Survivors in the water  --answer
B. Food and water
C. Land
D. Bad weather

216. After abandoning a vessel, water that is consumed within the first 24 hours will_____.

A. Pass through the body with little absorbed by the system  --answer
B. Help to prevent fatigue
C. Quench thirst for only 2 hours
D. Help to prevent seasickness

217. When a ship is abandoned and there are several life rafts in the water, one of the FIRST things to be done is

A. Separate the rafts as much as possible to increase chances of detection
B. Transfer all supplies to one raft
C. Transfer all the injured to one raft
D. Secure the rafts together to keep them from drifting apart  --answer

218. The most important thing to remember when launching an inflatable life raft by hand is to_____.

A. Open the CO2 inflation valve
B. Open the raft container
C. Ensure that the operating cord is secured to the vessel  --answer
D. Inflate the raft on the vessel, then lower it over the side

219. The maximum speed of lowering for a lifeboat on gravity davits is controlled by the _____.

A. Limit switches
B. Emergency disconnect switch
C. Governor brake  --answer
D. Position of the counterweight on the brake handle


220. When launching a lifeboat, the tricing pendants should be released _____.

A. Before the boat is lowered from the stowed position
B. As the boat-fall blocks break clear of the davit head
C. Before the boat is lowered from the embarkation level  --answer
D. After the boat is released into the water

221. What is the purpose of the limit switch on gravity davits?

A. To cut off the power when the davits hit the track safety stops
B. To stop the davits from going too fast
C. To cut off the power when the davits are about 12 inches or more from the track safety stops  --answer

222. To disengage a survival craft suspended from the cable above the water, you must pull the safety pin and _____.

A. Pull the hook release handle
B. Pull the hook release handle and use the ratchet bar  --answer
C. Use the ratchet bar and depress the retainer
D. Pull the hook release handle and depress the retainer

223. Which of the following must be carried out in order to launch and inflate an inflatable life raft?

A. Pull on the hydrostatic release, pull on the sea painter.
B. Push on the hydrostatic release, pull on the sea painter.  --answer
C. Push on the hydrostatic release, push on the sea painter.
D. Pull on the hydrostatic release, push on the sea painter.

224. Which of the lifeboat parts listed must be painted bright red?

A. Hatches
B. Releasing gear lever  --answer
C. Boat hooks
D. Compass

225. An inflatable liferaft is floating in its container, attached to the ship by its painter, as the ship is sinking rapidly. Which action should be taken with respect to the liferaft container?

A. Cut the painter line so that it will not pull the liferaft container down.
B. Swim away from the container so that you will not be in danger as it goes down.
C. Take no action as the pull on the painter will cause the liferaft to inflate and open the container.  --answer
D. Manually open the container and inflate the liferaft with the hand pump.

226. If the steersman of your lifeboat gives the command "Way enough", you should_____.

A. Complete the stroke, hold your oar out from the boat and level with the water
B. Dip the blade of your oar into the water and leave it there
C. Lift your oar to a vertical position
D. Complete the stroke, raise your oar slightly, swing it forward, and place it in the boat  --answer


227. When transferring survivors from a survival craft to a rescue vessel, personnel on board the craft should

A. Remove their lifejackets to make it easier to climb on board the rescue vessel
B. Climb on top of the survival craft while waiting their turn to transfer to the rescue vessel
C. Remain seated inside the survival craft and make the transfer one person at a time  -answer
D. Enter the water and swim over to the rescue vessel

228. If there are a number of survivors in the water after abandoning ship, they should _____.

A. Tie themselves to the unit so they won't drift with the current
B. Form a small circular group to create a warmer pocket of water in the center of the circle  --answer
C. Send the strongest swimmer to shore for assistance
D. Form a raft by lashing their life preservers together

229. If you have to abandon ship, and enter a liferaft, your main course of action should be to _____.

A. Remain in the vicinity of the sinking vessel  --answer
B. Head for the closest land
C. Head for the closest sea-lanes
D. Get a majority opinion

230. Which of the following steps should normally be taken first by those who have boarded a liferaft in an emergency situation?

A. Ration food and water supplies
B. Search for survivors  --answer
C. Determine position and closest point of land
D. Check pyrotechnic supplies

231. Limit switches, winches, falls, etc. must be thoroughly inspected at least every _____.

A. 2 months
B. 4 months
C. 6 months
D. Year  --answer

232. Which of the following operations should be carried out when launching an inflatable life raft by hand?

A. Open the life raft casing
B. Turn the valve on the CO2 cylinder to start inflation
C. Make sure the operating cord is secured to the vessel before throwing it over the side  --answer
D. After inflation, detach operating cord from life raft

233. What must be carried out in order to launch and inflate an inflatable liferaft?

A. Pull on the hydrostatic release, pull on the sea painter.
B. Push on the hydrostatic release, pull on the sea painter.  --answer
C. Push on the hydrostatic release, push on the sea painter.
D. Pull on the hydrostatic release, push on the sea painter.

234. What is the best procedure for picking up a lifeboat at sea while utilizing the lifeboat's sea painter?

A. Place the lifeboat ahead and to windward of your vessel with the wind about broad on the bow of your ship.
B. Place the lifeboat ahead and to leeward of your ship with the wind about broad on the bow of your ship.  --answer
C. Place your ship to windward of the lifeboat with the wind on the quarter to allow your ship to drift down to the lifeboat.
D. Place the lifeboat ahead and to windward of your ship with the wind about broad on the quarter of your ship.


235. The hand brake of a lifeboat winch is_____.

A. Manually disengaged when hoisting a boat
B. Applied by dropping the counterweighted lever  --answer
C. Controlled by the centrifugal brake mechanism
D. Automatically engaged if lowering speed is excessive

236. After a liferaft is launched, the operating cord.

A. Serves as a sea painter  --answer
B. Detaches automatically
C. Is used to rig the boarding ladder
D. Is cut immediately as it is of no further use

237. If more than one life raft is manned after the vessel has Sunk, _____.

A. Each raft should go in a different direction in search of land
B. The possibility of a search aircraft finding you is increased by spreading out
C. Reduce the number of rafts by getting as many people as possible into as few rafts as possible
D. Tie each of the rafts together and try to stay in a single group  --answer

238. When launching an inflatable liferaft, you should make sure that the operating cord is _____.

A. Fastened to some substantial part of the vessel  --answer
B. Not fastened to anything
C. Secured to the hydrostatic release
D. Fastened to the raft container

239. You have abandoned ship and after two days in a liferaft you can see an aircraft near the horizon apparently carrying out a search pattern. You should

A. Switch the EPIRB to the homing signal mode
B. Use the voice transmission capability of the EPIRB to guide the aircraft to your raft
C. Turn on the strobe light on the top of the EPIRB
D. Use visual distress signals in conjunction with the EPIRB  --answer

240. If you have to abandon ship and enter a life raft, your main course of action should be _____.

A. Remain in the vicinity of the vessel  --answer
B. Head for the closest land
C. Head for the closest sea- lanes
D. Get a majority opinion

241. A hydrostatic release mechanism for a liferaft

A. Must be wet before it will release
B. Should be kept in a watertight cover except in an emergency
C. Will inflate the raft in its cradle if operated manually
D. Must be submerged to a certain depth to release automatically  --answer

242. What is TRUE concerning frapping lines?

A. They are used to steady a lifeboat when lowered.  --answer
B. They are normally attached to the davit span.
C. They are needed only on radial davits.
D. They are used to clear the puddings.

243. When abandoning ship, after launching the motor lifeboat you should _____.

A. Plot a course for the nearest land
B. Take a vote on which direction you should go
C. Stay in the immediate area  --answer
D. Go in one direction until fuel runs out

244. The sea painter of a lifeboat should be led

A. Forward and outside  --answer
B. Forward and inside of all obstructions
C. Up and down from the main deck
D. To the foremost point on the ship

245. If you are forced to abandon ship in a rescue boat, you should _____.

A. Remain in the immediate vicinity  --answer
B. Head for the nearest land
C. Head for the closest sea-lanes
D. Vote on what to do, so all hands will have a part in the decision

246. You will find a limit switch on a _____.

A. Liferaft cradle
B. Radial davit
C. Sheath-screw davit
D. Gravity davit  --answer

247. What is one of the FIRST things you would do on boarding an inflatable liferaft?

A. Open equipment pack.
B. Post a lookout.
C. Issue anti-seasickness medicine.
D. Pick up other survivors.  --answer


248. When lifting loads from a boat in heavy weather, the load should be taken when the boat _____.

A. Reaches the crest  --answer 
B. Begins to fall
C. Begins to rise
D. Reaches the trough

249. The instructions for the launching of lifeboats and liferafts must be approved by the _____.

A. Lease operator
B. Minerals Management Service
C. Classification surveyor or administration  --answer
D. Person-in-charge of the unit

250. When operating gravity davits, _____.

A. The gripes should be released after the boat is moving
B. The davits should always be hand cranked the last 12 inches into the final stowed position  --answer
C. The boats are generally lowered by surging the falls around cruciform bits
D. The tricing pendant should be tripped prior to releasing the gripes


251. Which davit type may be operated by one man?

A. Quadrantal
B. Gravity  --answer
C. Sheath-screw
D. Radial

252. The boat command that means complete the stroke and level the oars horizontally with the blades trimmed fore and aft is _____.

A. "Oars"  --answer
B. "Up oars"
C. "Way enough"
D. "Hold water"

253. Which of the following is the correct procedure to follow when launching an inflatable life raft by hand from an ocean going vessel?

A. Connect the stainless steel link (float free link) to the vessel.
B. Pull the line (painter) from the container and make it fast to the cleat provided.  --answer
C. Open the canopy relief valves.
D. Remove the raft from the container to permit complete inflation.

254. Upon hearing the abandon ship signal, you put on your life jacket and report to your station. After the cover is removed you board your open lifeboat. The FIRST thing to do is to _____.

A. Release the gripes
B. Release tricing pendants
C. Put the cap on the drain  --answer
D. Lift the brake handle

255. One of the first actions to be taken by survivors when they have boarded an inflatable life raft is to _____.

A. Break out food rations
B. Prepare to cut the sea painter  --answer
C. Open the pressure relief valve
D. Drink at least one can of water

256. What is required by regulations concerning the stowage of lifeboats on cargo vessels?

A. Each lifeboat must have a launching appliance.  --answer
B. Launching appliances must be of the gravity type.
C. There may not be more than two launching appliances on the same deck.

257. Why is an upper limit switch used when raising the lifeboat?

A. To prevent the davits from pulling up against the stops. --answer
B. To assist in cranking in the lifeboat.
C. To keep the tricing lines from releasing or getting tangled.
D. To stop the lifeboat from being lowered.

258. The function of the lifeboat davit limit switch is to _____.

A. Control the descent rate of a lifeboat
B. Control the ascent rate of a lifeboat
C. Cut off power to the winch when the lifeboat nears the final stowed position  --answer
D. Cut off power to the winch when the lifeboat reaches the davit bumpers


259. An 'on-load' release system on a survival craft means the cable can be released _____.

A. Only when the load is taken off the cable
B. Only there is a load on the cable
C. Only when activated by the controls at the lowering station
D. At any time  --answer

260. An inflatable liferaft can be launched by _____.

A. The float-free method ONLY
B. Breaking the weak link on the painter
C. Throwing the entire container overboard and then pulling on the operating cord to inflate the raft  --answer
D. Removing the securing straps

270. The purpose of the tricing pendants is to

A. Control the fore and aft motion of a lifeboat during lowering
B. Control the outboard swing of a lifeboat during lowering
C. Provide suspensions for the manropes
D. Hold a lifeboat next to the embarkation deck while before using the bowsing tackle  --answer

271. While retrieving the survival craft, the engine should be stopped _____.

A. When the craft clears the water  --answer
B. When the cable has been attached
C. On approach to the platform
D. At the embarkation


272. When hoisting a boat on gravity type davits using an electric motor driven winch, the davit arms should be brought up _____.

A. To their final position with the winch operating at slow speed
B. To the bar stop, and then hand cranked to their final position
C. Until just before they make contact with the limit switch, and then hand cranked to their final position  --answer
D. To the embarkation deck, and then hand cranked to their final position

273. During the towing of a survival craft, a lookout should be on station to _____.

A. Release the towline in an emergency  --answer
B. Help the helmsman steer
C. Look for food and water
D. Check the water level in the bilge

274. If for any reason it is necessary to abandon ship while far at sea, it is important for the crew members to _____.

A. Separate from each other as this will increase the chances of being rescued
B. Get away from the area because sharks will be attracted to the vessel
C. Immediately head for the nearest land
D. Remain together in the area because rescuers will start searching at the vessel's last known position  --answer

280. When abandoning ship and jumping into the water from a substantial height without a life jacket, you should _____.

A. Dive head first, using your hands to break the surface of the water
B. Hold your arms firmly at your sides and jump feet first
C. Jump feet first, covering your nose and mouth with one hand and grasping the opposing upper arm with the other  --answer
D. Jump feet first, holding your knees to your chest

281. When should you first have any food or water after boarding a lifeboat or liferaft?

A. After 12 hours
B. After 24 hours  --answer
C. Within 48 hours
D. Some food and water should be consumed immediately and then not until 48 hours later.

282. Limit switches are used on which davits?

A. Sheath-screw davits
B. Gravity davits  --answer
C. Radial davits
D. Quadrantal davits

283. Which of the following must be carried out in order to manually launch an inflatable life raft not designed for float- free operation?

A. It will be easily launched by simply breaking the weak link.
B. Depress the hydrostatic release button.  --answer
C. It is easily launched by cutting the container securing straps.
D. It is only necessary to attach the weak link to the vessel.

284. After you have thrown the liferaft and stowage container into the water, you inflate the liferaft by

A. Pulling on the painter line  --answer
B. Forcing open the container which operates the CO2
C. Hitting the hydrostatic release
D. Using the hand pump provided  

285. When picking up a lifeboat at sea with way on the ship, the sea painter should be secured _____.

A. Well forward in the lifeboat --answer
B. About amidships in the lifeboat
C. Well aft in the lifeboat
D. Only after the falls have been attached

286. When lowering a boat with gravity davits, it will be pulled into the embarkation deck by the _____.

A. Falls
B. Bowsing tackles  --answer
C. Frapping lines
D. Boat hooks

287. You board an inflatable liferaft that has been hand launched from a sinking vessel. What should you do FIRST after everyone is onboard the liferaft?

A. Cut the painter.  --answer
B. Operate the radio equipment
C. Open the equipment pack.
D. Ventilate the liferaft of CO2

288. The bosun has thrown the liferaft into the water before abandoning the vessel. The operating cord

A. Serves as a sea painter  --answer
B. Detaches from the liferaft automatically
C. Is used to rig the boarding ladder
D. Is cut immediately as it is of no further use

289. When a ship is abandoned and there are several liferafts in the water, one of the FIRST things to be done is _____.

A. Separate the rafts as much as possible to increase chances of detection
B. Transfer all supplies to one raft
C. Transfer all the injured to one raft
D. Secure the rafts together to keep them from drifting apart  --answer

290. You have just abandoned ship and boarded a raft. After the raft is completely inflated you hear a whistling noise coming from a safety valve. You should _____.

A. Not become alarmed unless it continues for a long period of time  --answer
B. Plug the safety valve
C. Unscrew the deflation plugs
D. Remove the safety valve and replace it with a soft patch

291. When lowering lifeboats as the vessel is pitching in heavy seas, a good practice is to rig frapping lines _____.

A. On only the forward falls
B. On only the after falls
C. Fore and aft with a lead of about 45° to the boat  --answer
D. From the falls to the tricing gear

292. Prior to entering a davit-launched liferaft, you should make sure that _____.

A. The liferaft is well ventilated of excess carbon dioxide  --answer
B. All personnel have removed their life preservers to facilitate boarding
C. The door flap has been cut away and stowed inside the raft

Q. Limit switches _____.

A. Control the descent rate of a lifeboat
B. Control the ascent rate of a lifeboat
C. Cut off power to the winch when the lifeboat nears the final stowed position  --answer
D. Cut off power to the winch when the lifeboat reaches the davit bumpers

293. In rough weather, when a ship is able to maneuver, it is best to launch a lifeboat _____.

A. On the lee side  --answer
B. On the windward side
C. With the wind dead ahead
D. With the wind from astern

294. You have hand launched an inflatable liferaft. What should be one of your FIRST actions after all persons have boarded the liferaft?

A. Open the equipment pack.
B. Inflate the liferaft floor.
C. Decide on food and water rations.
D. Cut the sea painter and clear the vessel.  --answer

295. The first step to manually launch an inflatable life raft is to

A. Use the float-free method only
B. Trip the hydrostatic release  --answer
C. Pull on the operating cord to inflate the raft
D. Release the gravity brake

296. If help has not arrived in 10-12 hours after having abandoned an OSV in a survival craft, you should

A. Go in one direction until the fuel runs out
B. Plot course for the nearest land
C. Take a vote on the direction in which to go
D. Shutdown the engines and put out the sea anchor  --answer

297. The most important thing to remember when launching an inflatable liferaft by hand is to

A. Assist in keeping open the CO2 inflation valve
B. Reduce appetite by decreasing nausea open the raft container
C. Prevent loss of body moisture by vomiting and ensure that the operating cord is secured to the vessel  --answer
D. Prevent impaired judgment due to motion-induced deliriousness inflate the raft on the vessel, then lower it over the side


298. Generally, what is used to inflate liferafts?

A. Non-toxic gas  --answer
B. Oxygen
C. Hydrogen
D. Helium

299. The most common type of davit found on merchant vessels today is the _____.

A. Radial
B. Sheath-screw T
C. Gravity  --answer
D. Quadrantal

300. How can a person protect against drowning?

A. By swimming
B. Wearing a life jacket  --answer
C. By wearing a thermal protective aid

301. What should be used to steer an open lifeboat if the rudder becomes lost or damaged?

A. Sea anchor
B. Steering oar  --answer
C. Spare rudder
D. Daggerboard

302. Average mass of persons permitted to board a rigid liferaft shall be

A. 70 kg
B. 82.5 kg  --answer
C. 90 kg
D. 100 kg

303. All personnel should be familiar with the lifeboats

A. Boarding and operating procedures  --answer
B. Maintenance schedule
C. Navigational systems
D. Fuel consumption rates

304. Steering a survival craft broadside to the sea could cause it to _____.

A. Capsize  --answer
B. Run smoother
C. Run faster
D. Sink

305. How can a person protect against drowning?

A. By swimming
B. Wearing a life jacket  --answer
C. By wearing a thermal protective aid

306. Rescue boats can be recovered

A. With full complement of crew on board  --answer
B. With one member of the crew on board
C. With no crew on board
D. With halfl complement of crew on board

307. In each inflatable rescue boat, what piece of equipment is provided to make quick, emergency, temporary repairs to a large hole in a raft?

A. No equipment is provided.
B. Glue and rubber patches.
C. Several various-sized sealing clips.  --answer
D. Self-adhesive rubberized canvas patches.

308. How much water is required on board a lifeboat

A. 5 liters of fresh water for every person on board
B. 3 liters of fresh water for every person on board  --answer
C. 8 liters of fresh water for every person on board
D. 4 liters of fresh water for 80% of persons on board

309. If your vessel is equipped with inflatable life rafts, how should they be maintained?

A. Have your crew check them annually
B. They do not need any maintenance
C. Several various-sized sealing clamps  --answer
D. Self-adhesive rubberized canvas patches

310. In each inflatable liferaft, what equipment is provided to make quick, emergency, temporary repairs to large holes in the raft?

A. No equipment is provided.
B. Glue and rubber patches
C. Several various-sized sealing clamps  --answer
D. Self-adhesive rubberized canvas patches

311. If your vessel is equipped with inflatable liferafts, how should they be maintained?

A. Have your crew check them annually.
B. They do not need any maintenance.
C. Have them sent ashore to an approved maintenance facility annually.  --answer
D. Have them serviced by the shipyard annually.

312. The heading of a vessel is indicated by what part of the compass?

A. Card
B. Needle
C. Lubber's line --answer
D. Gimbals

313. Your rescue craft is broken down and rolling in heavy seas. You can reduce the possibility of capsizing by

A. Shifting the rudder constantly
B. Moving all personnel forward and low
C. Moving all personnel aft
D. Rigging a sea anchor  --answer

314. In an open lifeboat, the lifeboat compass is usually

A. Placed in a fixed bracket when being used  --answer
B. Clamped to any position convenient for the coxswain to see it
C. Permanently mounted on the lifeboat's centerline
D. Mounted in the center of the boat to eliminate deviation

315. A feature of an inflatable raft which helps keep people stationary in rough weather is _____.

A. Lashings on the floor of the raft for the passenger's feet
B. Straps from the overhead
C. Lifelines on the inside of the raft  --answer
D. Ridges in the floor of the raft

316. When a magnetic compass is not in use for a prolonged period of time it should _____.

A. Be shielded from direct sunlight  --answer
B. Be locked into a constant heading
C. Have any air bubbles replaced with nitrogen
D. Have the compensating magnets removed

317. What is the primary advantage of a davit-launched liferaft in comparison to an inflatable liferaft?

A. The davit-launched liferaft is easier to maintain.
B. The davit-launched liferaft is made of fire-retardant material.
C. The davit-launched liferaft has a built-in sprinkler system for fire protection.
D. The davit-launched liferaft enables personnel to enter the raft without having to enter the water.  --answer

318. Who should inspect and test an inflatable life raft?

A. The person in Charge
B. An approved servicing facility  -answer
C. Shipyard personnel
D. A certified lifeboatman

319. An inflatable life raft can be manually released from its cradle by _____.

A. Cutting the straps that enclose the container
B. Removing the rubber sealing strip from the container
C. Loosing the turnbuckle on the securing strap
D. Pushing the button on the hydrostatic release  --answer

320. You have abandoned ship and are in charge of a life raft.How much water per day should you permit each occupant to drink after the first 24 hours?

A. 1 can
B. 1 pint  --answer
C. 1 quart
D. 1 gallon

321. A liferaft and its equipment will operate satisfactorily when it is dropped into the water from a height of

A. 25 metres
B. 20 metres
C. 18 metres  --answer
D. 15 metres

322. In accordance with SOLAS regulations, which of the following is true concerning inflatable life raft battery powered lights?

A. Outside and inside canopy lights must be manually switched on after inflation
B. The lights must be capable of being shut off during daylight hours to extend battery life.  --answer
C. The lights must automatically turn on and off by photoelectric cells.
D. The lights must always remain on.


323. Inflatable liferafts are provided with a _____.

A. Very pistol
B. Towing connection  --answer
C. Portable radio
D. Canned milk

324. The lights on the outside of the canopy of an inflatable life raft operate _____ .

A. By turning the globe clockwise
B. By a switch at each light
C. By a light sensor
D. Automatically when the raft is inflated  --answer

325. In heavy seas the helmsman should steer the survival craft

A. Into the seas  --answer
B. Broadside to the seas
C. In the same direction as the seas
D. In a series of figure- eights 

326. The required amount of water for each person in a lifeboat on an oceangoing vessel, on an international voyage, is _____.

A. 1 liter
B. 2 liters
C. 3 liters  --answer
D. 4 liters

327. You should deploy the sea anchor from a life raft to

A. Keep the life raft from capsizing
B. Navigate against the current
C. Keep personnel from getting seasick
D. Help stay in the general location  --answer

328. Hand holds or straps on the underside of an inflatable life raft are provided _____.

A. To right the raft if it capsizes  --answer
B. To carry the raft around on deck
C. For crewman to hang on to
D. To hang the raft for drying

329. The purpose for the bag or box on top of some survival craft is to_____.

A. Right it in case of capsize  --answer
B. Increase area for radar detection
C. Act as a sail in case of a power loss
D. Steady the craft in heavy seas

330. Small passenger vessels in cold water ocean routes, that do not meet the standards for collision bulkheads or subdivision , must carry _____.(small passenger vessel regulations

A. 100% inflatable buoyant apparatus  --answer
B. At least one hand fire pump
C. At least two EPIRBs

331. Generally, when lifting an inflatable life raft back aboard ship, you would use the _____ .

A. Towing bridle  --answer
B. Main weather cover
C. External lifelines
D. Righting strap

332. Frapping lines _____.

A. Secure the lifeboat in the davits when in the stowed position
B. Bring the lifeboat close alongside the rail in the embarkation position
C. Give the occupants a safety line when the boat is being lowered from the embarkation level
D. Reduce the swinging of the lifeboat at the embarkation level  --answer

333. The floor of a rigid liferaft shall

A. Insulate persons from the cold  --answer
B. Be used to keep equipment
C. Be used for sitting down
D. Be used for lying down

334. A lifeline must be connected to the life raft _____.

A. At the bow
B. At the stern
C. In the middle
D. All around  --answer

335. On most makes of inflatable life rafts, the batteries to operate the light on the inside of rafts can be made to last longer by _____ .

A. Unscrewing the bulb during daylight
B. Operating the switch for the light  --answer
C. Taking no action as there is no way of preserving power
D. Taking no action as they shut off automatically in daylight

336. Water pockets on the under side of an inflatable life raft are for _____.

A. Catching rain water
B. Stability  --answer
C. Easy drainage
D. Maneuverability

337. When using the rainwater collection tubes on a life raft, the FIRST collection should be _____.

A. Passed around so all can drink
B. Poured overboard because of salt washed off the canopy  --ansswer
C. Saved to be used at a later time
D. Used to boil food

338. After abandoning ship which action should be taken IMMEDIATELY upon entering a liferaft?

A. Open equipment pack.
B. Issue anti-seasickness medicine.
C. Get clear of the ship.  --answer
D. Dry the liferaft floor and inflate.

339. Your vessel has lifeboats on both sides. Lifeboat No. 2 is located _____.

A. Forward of lifeboat No. 4 on the starboard side
B. Forward of lifeboat No. 4 on the port side  --answer
C. Aft of lifeboat No. 1 on the starboard side

340. A right-handed propeller will cause the survival craft to

A. Walk the stern to starboard in reverse
B. Walk the stern to port in reverse  --answer
C. Run faster than a left- handed propeller
D. Right the survival craft if capsized

341. On open lifeboats, the purpose of the wire stretched between the davit heads is to _____.

A. Keep the movement of the davits at the same speed
B. Keep the davits from slipping when they are in the stowed position
C. Prevent vibration during lowering of the boat
D. Support the manropes  --answer

342. The purpose of the four water pockets, located on the underside at each corner of the raft, is to _____

A. Stow rainwater; these four spaces will not take up valuable space
B. Act as stabilizers by filling with sea water as soon as raft is inflated and in an upright position  --answer
C. Hold the freshwater required by regulation to be provided in the raft when packed

343. All personnel on board a vessel should be familiar with the rescue boat _____.

A. Boarding and operating procedures  --answer
B. Maintenance schedules
C. Navigational systems
D. Fuel consumption rates

345. What is placed on the underside of an inflatable life raft to help prevent it from being skidded by the wind or overturned?

A. Ballast bags  --answer
B. A keel
C. Strikes
D. Sea anchor

346. Your vessel has 3 lifeboats on each side. The middle boat on the starboard side is designated as boat number _____.

A. 2
B. 2 STARBOARD
C. 3  --answer
D. 4

347. With the sprinkler system and air system on and all hatches shut, the survival craft will provide protection from a _____.

A. Nuclear environment
B. Fire and toxic environment  --answer
C. Hurricane
D. Drop greater than 10 feet

348. Lifeboats shall be capable of being launched with the ship making headway at speeds up to

A. 3 knots in calm water
B. 5 knots in calm water  --answer
C. 7 knots in calm water
D. 10 knots in calm water

349. According to the SOLAS regulations, lifeboat falls must be renewed at intervals of how many years?

A. 2.5
B. 3
C. 4
D. 5 --answer

350. At a speed of six knots the fuel aboard a survival craft should last_____.

A. 8 hours
B. 12 hours
C. 24 hours  --answer
D. 48 hours

351. In order for the automatic lifeboat drain to operate properly

A. The cap should be removed to drain the boat when it is waterborne
B. The cage must be free of rubbish or the ball may not seat properly  --answer
C. There is an automatic ball check located in a siphon tube
D. The small lever to release the rubber ball float must be turned counterclockwise

352. At a speed of 6 knots the fuel aboard a survival craft should last_____.

A. 8 hours
B. 12 hours
C. 24 hours  --answer
D. 48 hours

353. Water pockets on the underside of an inflatable liferaft are for_____.

A. Catching rain water
B. Stability  --answer
C. Easy drainage
D. Maneuverability

354. The capacity of any liferaft on board a vessel can be determined by_____.

A. Examining the Certificate of Inspection
B. Examining the plate on the outside of the raft container  --answer
C. Referring to the Muster List ("Station Bill")
D. Referring to the shipping articles

355. The lubber's line of a magnetic compass indicates

A. Compass north
B. The direction of the vessel's head  --answer
C. Magnetic north
D. A relative bearing taken with an azimuth circle

356. When should food and water be provided to survivors after boarding a lifeboat or life raft?

A. After 12 hours
B. After 24 hours  --answer
C. After 48 hours
D. Some food and water immediately and then not until 48 hours later

357. One of the signals, other than a distress signal, that can be used by a rescue boat to attract attention is a

A. Red star shell
B. Searchlight  --answer
C. Burning barrel
D. Orange smoke signal

358. If you wish to remove an inflatable life raft from its cradle, the best way to free it is by_____ .

A. Cutting the restraining strap
B. Unscrewing the turnbuckle on the back of the cradle
C. Lifting one end of the raft
D. Pushing the plunger on the center of the hydrostatic release  --answer

359. Which item of the listed survival craft equipment would be the most suitable for night signaling to a ship on the horizon?

A. A red parachute flare  --answer
B. A red handheld flare
C. An orange smoke flare
D. A flashlight

360. Which of these is not a pyrotechnic carried onboard a ship?

A. Rocket parachute
B. Hand gun  --answer
C. Smoke float

361. A rescue boat should not be less than

A. 3 meters in length
B. 3.8 meters in length  --answer
C. 4 meters in length
D. 5 meters in length

362. The inside light in an inflatable life raft is turned on

A. Automatically as the life raft inflates  --answer
B. With a switch near the boarding handle
C. At night because the light has a photosensitive switch
D. By screwing the bulb in after the raft is inflated

363. Frapping lines are fitted to lifeboat davits to

A. Reduce the swinging of the lifeboat as it is being lowered from the embarkation level  --answer
B. Secure the lifeboat in the davits when in the stowed position
C. Hold the lifeboat to the ship's side until the tricing lines are passed
D. Be used as a safety line in an emergency

364. If you must abandon a ship in VERY HEAVY SEAS, in a survival craft, when should you remove the safety pin and pull the hook release?

A. Immediately upon launching
B. One to three feet before first wave contact  --answer
C. Upon first wave contact
D. Only when waterborne

365. If more than one life raft is manned after a vessel has been Abandoned, _____.

A. Each raft should go in a different direction in search of land
B. The possibility of a search aircraft finding you is increased by spreading out
C. Reduce the number of rafts by getting as many people as possible into as few rafts as possible
D. Tie each of the rafts together and try to stay in a single group  --answer

366. The davit launched liferaft can be boarded

A. From the water only
B. At the deck  --answer
C. By jumping down onto it
D. Through the escape tube

367. To release the davit cable of a davit launched life raft, you must _____ .

A. Pull the release lanyard  --answer
B. Pull the hydraulic release
C. Push the release button
D. Pull on the ratchet handle

368. Your vessel has 3 lifeboats on each side. The aftermost boat on the port side is designated as boat number _____.

A. 6  --answer
B. 5
C. 3
D. 3 PORT

369. When abandoning ship in an emergency situation, you should _____.

A. Jump off feet first from the windward side  --answer
B. Dive head first from the bridge
C. Dive head first from the main deck
D. Follow directly behind another person on the leeward side

370. As a vessel sinks to a depth of 15 feet, the hydrostatic trip releases the life raft container from its cradle by

A. Breaking the weak link
B. Releasing the tie-down strap  --answer
C. Pulling the operating
D. Releasing the CO2 canister

371. To inflate a davit launched liferaft you_____.

A. Initially connect the compressed air nozzle to the inflation tube
B. Pull the inflation lanyard  --answer
C. Connect the hand pump to the inflation tube and pump it up
D. Connect the helium nozzle to the inflation tube

372. How much fuel is required on a lifeboat

A. Sufficient fuel to run the fully loaded lifeboat at 10 knots for a period of not less than 12 hours
B. Sufficient fuel to run the fully loaded lifeboat at 6 knots for a period of not less than 24 hours  --answer
C. Sufficient fuel to run the fully loaded lifeboat at 5 knots for a period of not less than 48 hours
D. Sufficiency fuel to run a partially loaded lifeboat at 6 knots for a period of not less than 20 hours

373. Partially enclosed life-boats shall be provided with permanently attached rigid covers extending over not less than

A. 5% of the length of the lifeboat
B. 10% of the length of the lifeboat
C. 15% of the length of the lifeboat
D. 20% of the length of the lifeboat  --answer

374. The marine evacuation system shall be capable of deployment

A. By one person  --answer
B. By two persons
C. By three persons
D. By four persons

375. All inflatable liferafts have_____.

A. Safety straps from the overhead
B. Built in seats
C. Releasing hooks at each end
D. Water stabilizing pockets  --answer

376. The normal equipment of every rescue boat shall include_____.

A. Compass  --answer
B. One 50 meter line
C. One can opener

377. With the air supply on, the air pressure in the survival craft will be_____.

A. Changing in relation to the speed of the craft
B. Less than outside air pressure
C. Greater than outside air pressure  --answer
D. Equal to outside air pressure

378. Prior to lowering the lifeboat, the most important item to check is the_____.

A. Oars
B. Sail
C. Boat plug  --answer
D. Life preservers

379. On a life float or buoyant apparatus, the life line is_____.

A. Secured around the sides and ends in bights of not longer than three feet  --answer
B. Woven into a net and secured in the center of the float
C. Used for securing unconscious persons to the sides
D. The lanyard for securing provisions


380. When making a permanent repair to an inflatable life raft using a repair kit, how long after the repair is made should you hold off 'topping up' the lost air?

A. You do not have to hold off
B. 12 hours
C. 24 hours  --answer
D. 2 hours

381. The engine in a covered lifeboat is fueled with_____.

A. Leaded gasoline
B. Unleaded gasoline
C. Diesel oil  --answer
D. Liquefied gas


382. The sprinkler system of a survival craft is used to _____.

A. Cool the craft in a fire  --answer
B. Cool the engine
C. Spray oil on the sea to calm it
D. Spray personnel during a fire

383. How many immersion suits must be carried onboard a ship?

A. 10% of the lifeboat capacity
B. 50% of the ships crew
C. At least one for each person on board the ship  --answer

384. The canopy of an inflatable liferaft should_____.

A. Go into place as the raft is inflated  --answer
B. Be put up after everyone is aboard
C. Be put up only in severe weather
D. Be used as a sail if the wind is blowing

385. A certificated lifeboatman assigned to command the lifeboat must_____.

A. Be the first individual to board the craft
B. Drain the hydraulic pressure before lowering the craft
C. Have a list of the persons assigned to the lifeboat  --answer

386. Most lifeboats are equipped with_____.

A. Unbalanced rudders  --answer
B. Balanced rudders
C. Contra guide rudders
D. Straight rudders

389. The knife on an inflatable liferaft will always be located_____.

A. In one of the equipment bags
B. In a special pocket near the forward entrance  --answer
C. On a cord hanging from the canopy
D. In a pocket on the first aid kit

390. Using a sea anchor with the survival craft will _____.

A. Reduce your drift rate  --answer
B. Keep the survival craft from turning over
C. Aid in recovering the survival craft
D. Increase your visibility

391. One of the first actions to be taken by survivors when they have boarded an inflatable life raft is to_____.

A. Break out food rations
B. Stream the sea anchor  --answer
C. Open the pressure relief valve
D. Drink at least one can of water

392. Davit launched lifeboats must be equipped with

A. Tanks for the storage of drinking water
B. Ballast tanks to prevent the boat from capsizing
C. Buoyant oars or paddles  --ansswer
D. Auxiliary mechanical propulsion (Fleming gear)

393. Which visual distress signal is acceptable for daylight use only?

A. Hand-held red flare
B. Self-contained rocket-propelled parachute red flare
C. Hand-held orange smoke distress flare  --answer
D. Red aerial pyrotechnic flare

394. After abandoning ship, you should deploy the sea anchor from a liferaft to _____.

A. Keep the liferaft from capsizing
B. Navigate against the current
C. Keep personnel from getting seasick
D. Stay in the general location  --answer

395. When collecting condensation for drinking water from the inside of a life raft, _____ .

A. A sponge used to mop up and store condensation must be kept salt free  --answer
B. Only condensation on the bottom of the canopy should be collected
C. It should be strained through a finely woven cloth
D. Chlorine tablets should be used to make it drinkable  

396. The purpose of a water spray system on a covered lifeboat is to_____.

A. Cool the lifeboat engine
B. Keep the lifeboat from reaching combustion temperature while operating in a fire  --answer
C. Keep the lifeboat warm in a cold climate by applying heated water spray from the engine to the boat
D. Put out a fire inside the lifeboat

397. The operating cord on an inflatable liferaft also serves as a _____.

A. Lifeline
B. Painter  --answer
C. Drogue
D. Marker

398. Puncture leaks in the lower tubes or bottom of an inflatable liferaft should FIRST be stopped by using

A. Sealing clamps  --answer
B. Repair tape
C. A tube patch
D. Sail twine and vulcanizing kit

399. Generally, which of the following gases is used to inflate life rafts?

A. CO2  --answer
B. Oxygen
C. Hydrogen
D. Compressed air

400. When operating the air supply system in a covered lifeboat the_____.

A. Fuel supply valve should be closed
B. Hatches, doors, and oar ports should be closed  --answer
C. Air cylinder shut-off valve should be closed
D. Engine should be shut off

401. What is the minimum number of deck officers, able seaman or certificated persons required to command each lifeboat on a vessel in ocean service?

A. Two  --answer
B. Three
C. Four
D. Five

402. If you must land on a beach with an oar-propelled lifeboat through a heavy surf, the recommended method is to _____.

A. Keep the bow directly in toward the beach, and tow the sea anchor off the stern
B. Ride in on the back of a large breaker
C. Keep the bow into the seas with the sea anchor out over the bow, and row to meet the breaking waves  --answer
D. Head directly into the beach by staying between the crests of the waves

403. When a sea anchor for a lifeboat is properly rigged, it will _____.

A. Completely stop the lifeboat from drifting
B. Help to prevent broaching  --answer
C. Prevent the lifeboat from pitching

404. The jackknife stored on an inflatable liferaft will always be located_____.

A. In one of the equipment bags
B. In a special pocket near the forward entrance  --answer
C. On a cord hanging from the canopy
D. In a pocket on the first aid kit


405. The sea painter on a rescue boat should be led _____.

A. Forward and outside of all obstructions  --ansewer
B. Forward and inside of all obstructions
C. Up and down from the main deck
D. To the foremost point on the vessel

406. The speed of a lifeboat proceeding ahead in calm water fully loaded shall be

A. At least 3 knots
B. At least 4 knots
C. At least 5 knots
D. At least 6 knots  --answer

407. The operating cord of the inflatable life raft has a length of

A. 6 fathoms
B. 50 feet
C. 100 feet  --answer
D. 300 feet

408. If an inflatable liferaft inflates upside down, you can right it by_____ .

A. Pushing up on one side
B. Standing on the CO2 bottle, holding the bottom straps, and throwing your weight backwards  --answer
C. Getting at least three or four men to push down on the side containing the CO2 cylinder
D. Doing nothing; it will right itself after the canopy supports inflate

409. Power driven winches on gravity davits are fitted with limit switches to

A. Limit the travel of the davit arms  --answer
B. Sound an audible alarm to stop the davit from moving
C. Warn the person launching to stop
D. Indicate lifeboat is fully hoisted

410. Inflatable liferafts shall be serviced at an approved servicing facility every 12 months or not later than the next vessel inspection for certification. However, the total elapsed time between servicing cannot exceed

A. 12 months
B. 15 months
C. 17 months  --answer
D. 18 months

411. If there are no alternatives for escape, what is the maximum height that the survival craft could be dropped into the water?

A. 2 ft.
B. 6 ft.
C. 10 ft.  --answer
D. 14 ft.

412. The air spaces in the floor of an inflatable liferaft will provide protection against_____.

A. Asphyxiation from CO2
B. Loss of air in the sides of the raft
C. Rough seas
D. Cold water temperatures  --answer

413. The HRU is connected to a strong point on deck through a

A. Weak link  --answer
B. Painter
C. Shackle
D. Hook

414. On inspected sea going ships, each inflatable liferaft must be serviced every _____.

A. 12 months  --answer
B. 24 months
C. 36 months
D. 48 months

415. Which of the following is NOT a function of the pressurized air supply for a fully enclosed lifeboat?

A. Provides combustion air for the diesel engine.
B. Pressurizes the water spray system.  --answer
C. Provides air for passenger respiration.
D. Prevents smoke and other noxious fumes from entering craft.

416. Which statement is TRUE concerning lifeboat gripes?

A. They must be released by freeing a safety shackle.
B. They should not be released until the boat is in lowering position.
C. They may be adjusted by a turnbuckle.  --answer
D. They are normally used only with radial davits.
