Q. Which fire extinguisher is most prone to freezing when stowed in low temperature?

A. Halon 1211
B. Carbon dioxide
C. Foam  --answer
D. Dry chemical

Q. You discover a particle embedded in the casualty cornea. You should

A. Remove the particle with a moist corner of a facial tissue or clean cloth
B. Flush the eye with water for 10 min
C. Use a splinter force to remove the particle
D. Cover the eye and transport the casualty to medical help  --answer

Q. A tissue is a group of like cells working together

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. When performing adult CPR you give

A. 2 slow breaths and 30 chest compressions  --answer
B. 1 slow breaths and 10 chest compressions
C. 5 slow breaths and 10 chest compressions
D. 3 slow breaths and 15 chest compressions

Q. Tonsils are special collections of lymphoid tissue, are protective structures and are located primarily at the entrances of the respiratory and digestive system

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. What method of handling you see if victim is unconscious

A. Pick a back method
B. Fireman lift
C. Simple fore and aft carry
D. Both B and C  --answer

Q. A faint is a brief loss of consciousness of more than momentary duration caused by a temporary reduction in the flow of blood to the brain. How would you prevent anyone from fainting ?

A. If standing in a crowd, flex the leg muscles and toes to aid circulation
B. Try to keep the person in an upstanding position
C. Tell the person to sit down in a sitting position breathing normally
D. Tell the person to sit down and lean forward with the head between the knees taking deep breaths  --answer

Q. Tissue make up organs. An organ is structure performing a particular function

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. The heat produces motive force to drive the blood, is located just below the diaphragm extending slightly to the right, the size of heart of an average is weighing ½ kg

A. True
B. False  --answer


Q. After an extremity fracture has been immobilised, the responder should check for circulation

A. In the injured limb only
B. Distal to the injury  --answer
C. Proximal to the injury
D. At the site of the fracture

Q. Urine enters the bladder through which structure ?

A. Ureters  --answer
B. Collecting duct
C. Kidney
D. Urethra

Q. What is the most important thing to do if you think someone is having a heart attack ?

A. Give aspirin and wait to see
B. Help the person lie down
C. Call the persons doctor
D. Call medical help  --answer

Q. You have a casualty that is muttering to themselves but not making any sense. The face appears to be dropping in one side what might be wrong with them ?

A. They are have a heart attack
B. They are in shock after witnessing an accident
C. They may be having a stroke  --answer
D. None of the above

Q. Signs that hernia is serious include.

A. Pain and tenderness at site  --answer
B. Pale, ashen skin colour at site
C. Hernia can be pushed back into the body
D. Hernia is above the diaphragm


Q. What damage could occur if first aider’s hand are placed at hte tip of the sternum during heart compression ?

A. The patient may vomit as his stomach is squeezed
B. The lungs may be punctured leading to severe loss of breath
C. The ribs might be cracked  --answer
D. The liver might be torn leading to severe internal bleeding

Q. To safety perform a chair carry you need ?

A. 2 rescuers
B. 3 rescuers  --answer
C. 4 rescuers
D. 5 rescuers

Q. What is the best way to remove a tick ?

A. Smoother it in butter
B. Lift it put carefully with tweezers  --answer
C. Scrape it off with a hard, flat object like a credit card
D. Burn it off with a hot match

Q. When caring for a chocking infant what position is the infant held ?

A. Upside down by ankles and shoulders
B. Face up on flat surface
C. Face down on your forearm with head lower than the body  --answer
D. Face down on your knee with head lower than the body


Q. Blood is a vehicle for the human cardiovascular system, its major subdivision are the plasma including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets.

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. What does the ABC’s for first aid stand for ?

A. The letters in the alphabet b. c. d.
B. Air, breathing, circulation
C. Airway , breathing, circulation  --answer
D. None of the above

Q. If someone suffers a heart attack and has ceased breathing, you should ?

A. Immediately give stimulant by force if necessary
B. Make the victim comfortable in a bunk
C. Immediately start CPR  --answer
D. Administer oxygen

Q. A communicate fracture is one where the bone has

A. Broken into pieces which are floating.  -answer
B. Broken where only part of the bone is fractured
C. Broken clearly with each and attached
D. Broken and is affecting muscles and nerve

Q. If a person is chocking you should do nothing as long as

A. They are coughing  --answer
B. They are still conscious
C. Their face has not turned blue
D. They start crying

Q. The proper stimulant for unconscious person is ______

A. Tea
B. Coffee
C. Whiskey and water
D. Ammonia inhalant  --answer

Q. The goal of medical service is to provide

A. Satisfactory treatment of male seamen
B. Provide treatment for those in need of urgent medical care  --answer
C. To provide help to seamen in time of financial need
D. To provide help in the sea of disabled people

Q. Heat stroke attack bodies vital organs except

A. Brain
B. Heart
C. Kidney
D. Bones  --answer

Q. When performing abdominal thrust how many thrust do you do ?

A. 1 to 5 thrust
B. 6 to 10 thrust  --answer
C. 15 to 20 thrust
D. 30 to 40 thrust

Q. In order to initiate CPR on a drowning victim

A. Start chest compression before the victim is removed from the water
B. Drain water from the lungs before ventilating
C. Begin mouth-to-mouth ventilation  --answer
D. Do not lit the head back since it may cause vomiting

Q. Some people are very allergic to insect bites and stings. The condition is called ______.

A. Septic chock
B. Cardiac arrest
C. Toxic shock and syndrome
D. Anaphylactic shock  --answer

Q. A person indicates that he was bitten by a snake what do you do ?

A. Apply ice to the wound and take to the nearest fire station or hospital
B. Wash the wound keeping injured area lower than the heart get professional medical care within 30 minutes  --answer
C. Cut a 1” cross at the site if injury and suck the poison out apply ice
D. Elevate injured area apply ice and get professional medical care within 30 minutes

Q. Which of the following is not a good approach to managing stress.

A. Talking directly to the person who is causing the stress
B. Giving yourself a treat like comfort food or a cocktail  --answer
C. Accepting that there are things beyond your control
D. Trying cognitive-therapy to learn new coping skills

Q. A high-fiber, low-fat diet and regular exercise can help to ____.

A. Increase CVD
B. Increase weight
C. Lose weight  --answer
D. None

Q. Which of the following is a laboratory procedure developed to provide an objective behavioral measure of the tendency to binge eat ______

A. Palatability test
B. Food pre-load test  --answer
C. Full capacity test
D. Fully loaded test


Q. What should you do if you think the victim are serious internal bleeding.

A. Apply heat to the injured area
B. Give fluids to replace blood loss
C. Call for medical assistance as quick as possible  --answer
D. Place the victim in a sitting position

Q. Sharp, stabbing twinges of pain in the chest is a sure sign of heart attack.

A. true
B. false  --answwer

Q. To treat first degree burn you should ______

A. Apply a good quality burn cream or ointment
B. Clean the area thoroughly with hot soapy water
C. Apply a constricting band between the burn and the heart
D. Apply cool running water until there is little or no remaining pain  --answer

Q. Advance communications system and technology stipulated by WHO where medical advice can be sought by

A. Telemedicine
B. Satellite communication
C. Radio medical advice  --answer
D. Compulsory in board specialize

Q. Before giving CPR you should make sure ?

A. They are not bleeding
B. They are conscious or unconscious  --answer
C. They are not vomiting
D. They are not dead

Q. You are alone and administering CPR to an victim. How many chest compression and how many inflations should you administer in each sequence ?

A. 15 compression then 2 inflations
B. 15 compression then 4 inflations
C. 30 compression then 2 inflations  --answer
D. 30 compression then 4 inflations


Q. The content of the first aid kit include the following except

A. Micropore
B. Macropore  --answer
C. Bandages
D. Scissor

Q. Pick one of the following familial factors that plays a role in the development of eating disorders ?

A. Parental attitudes to sex
B. Parental obesity  --answer
C. Parental attitudes to the media
D. Parental attitudes to education

Q. Body dissatisfaction is associated with triggering bouts of

A. Purging
B. Binging
C. Dieting  --answer
D. Shopping

Q. When performing CPR on a child how deep should the chest compression be ?

A. 1   1/2 inches  --answer
B. 2 inches
C. 2   1/2 inches
D. 3 inches

Q. Which of the following techniques is not suitable for moving an unconscious victim ?

A. Improvised stretcher
B. Four handed seat carry  --answer
C. Two person carry
D. Blanket drag

Q. The primary symptom of the advanced stages of hypothermia requiring immediate medical attention is violent shivering

A. False
B. True  --answer

Q. The accepted treatment for a sprained ankle is

A. Remove the shoe and check for swelling using the capillary reflex method
B. Keep the shoe on apply an ankle bandage for support, elevate and apply cold towels  --answer
C. Keep the shoe on, apply an ankle splint and apply heat if possible
D. Have the victim walk or move as soon as possible to prevent stiffness

Q. A crew has his finger severed off, what action would be the best ?

A. Put the severed end of the finger back in the place wrap entire finger in sterile gauze and transport to hospital immediately
B. Wrap the severed finger in sterile gauze place it in a plastic bag, put the bag on ice transport both finger and the victim to the hospital  --answer
C. Place the severed finger in a plastic bag have the crew place the bag under his armpit transport immediately to the hospital
D. Place a tourniquet at the stub where the finger severed to control bleeding transport to hospital immediately


Q. Which of the following correctly describes the CPR technique for an adult

A. Four cycle for 15 compressions followed by one breath each minute
B. One cycle of one breath and 10 compression each 2 to 3 inches deep per minute
C. Twelve cycles of one breath and 5 compressions per minute
D. Four cycles of Two breaths and 15 compressions per minutes  --answer

Q. Severe bleeding is a “hurry case” . which one of the following statements is true

A. Bleeding can seldom be stopped with direct pressure
B. A tourniquet is almost always required to control serious bleeding
C. Should the first sterile pad used become blood soaked, immediately remove it and apply another
D. Try to avoid direct contact with the victim’s blood by using latex gloves or another barriers  --answer

Q. On an infant, if you are the lone rescuer, you should perform compressions A. Using to finger just below the nipple line

A. Using to finger just below the nipple line  --answer
B. Using the heel of one hand just below he nipple line
C. Using the heal of two hands just below the nipple line
D. None of the above


Q. On an infant where you check the pulse ?

A. Inside the wrist just above the hand
B. On the neck to the right or left side of the wind pipe
C. Behind the knee cap
D. Inside the arm between the elbow and shoulder  --answer

Q. A crew o your ship has a severe cut in the groin area what do you do ?

A. Cover the wound with a sterile dressing applying direct pressure  --answer
B. Elevate the student’s feet and apply a sterile dressing to the wound, ply pressure to groin area
C. Drive the bus to nearest hospital or fire station
D. Cover wound with sterile dressing and apply pressure to femoral artery pressure

Q. What symptoms would indicate internal bleeding ?

A. Rapid weak pulse, excessive thirst
B. Skin that feels cold or moist, or look pale or bluish
C. Tender, swollen, bruised or hard areas of his body, such as abdomen
D. All of the above  --answer

Q. Which arteries pressure point is located on front of upper leg jus below the middle of crease of groin ?

A. Radial artery
B. Popliteal artery
C. Branchial artery
D. Femoral artery  --answer

Q. What treatment does a victim who’s life threatening condition is “not breathing” need ?

A. The Heimlich maneuver two rescue breaths and CPR
B. Start CPR immediately
C. Twelve to fifteen rescue breaths per min and correct CPR
D. You should follow the steps for rescue breathing  --answer

Q. Shock is a condition where

A. The respiratory system fails to deliver air to the lungs
B. The cardiovascular system fails to deliver blood to the heart
C. The circulatory system fails to deliver blood to all parts of the body  --answer
D. All of the above

Q. Internal bleeding can be caused by

A. Injury b. c. d.
B. Illness
C. Medication
D. All of the above  --answer

Q. When performing CPR on a child you give ……

A. 4 slow breaths & 20 chest compressions
B. 1 slow breaths & 5 chest compressions --answer
C. 2 slow breaths & 10 chest compressions
D. 2 slow breaths & 15 chest compressions

Q. White or greyish yellow patches on someone’s ears noses or checks are signs of

A. Frostbite  --answer
B. Cold related stress disorder
C. Anaphylactic shock
D. Hypothermia

Q. The emergency responder is one link in the chain of services known as the

A. Emergency crew care (ECC) system
B. Emergency medical services (EMS) system  --answer
C. Professional emergency care (PEC) system
D. Community medical care (CMC) system


Q. What is the appropriate treatment for a suspected broken collarbone or shoulder ?

A. Apply a simple sling. Bind the sling to the chest with a cravat  --answer
B. Use the cross your heart padded chest support system
C. Use the flail chest protection system
D. Apply a modified “Johnson traction splint”

Q. Why is CPR important ?

A. It provides a small supply of blood and oxygen to the brain and vital organs  --answer
B. It keeps the heart breaking
C. It keeps the aorta from collapsing
D. It prevent cardiac arrest


Q. What is the name of the type of stretcher often found on board ?

A. The canvas pole stretcher
B. The Neil Robertson stretcher  --answer
C. The SOLAS stretcher
D. The Heart Imco stretcher

Q. To reduce the risk of respiratory infection and pneumonia where medical care is delayed, responders should

A. Have the patient breathe deeply and cough  --answer
B. Provide the patient with adequate hydration
C. Position the patient in the position of comfort
D. Ensure the patient is kept warm and t rest

Q. The best way to prevent a critical incident stress situation from becoming worse is

A. Ignore it
B. Be familiar with the signs and symptoms  --answer
C. Ensure early use of proper medication
D. Force the responder to talk about the situation

Q. When communicating with patients

A. Stay at eye level and maintain eye contact  --answer
B. Stay as close to the patient as possible
C. Use medical terminology to enhance credibility
D. Hide facts of the situation is serious

Q. The onset of shock in infants and children

A. May be sudden and severe
B. Is no different than adults
C. Usually progresses slowly
D. Usually results from cardiac problems  --answer

Q. If you are the first person to discover the fire, what should you do ?

A. Leave the building immediately
B. Head to your locker and get your personal items
C. Pick up a fire extinguisher and tackle the fire
D. Activate the fire alarm  --answer

Q. Your role in making the first aid successful work effectively includes four steps

A. Elevate, identify, decide, execute
B. Check, cal, care, protect
C. Recognize, decide, call, provide  --answer
D. None of the above

Q. Where does the partly digested food ( in liquid form) goes after it leaves the stomach ?

A. Gullet
B. Appendix
C. Small intestine  --answer
D. Large intestine

Q. You have someone who is pale, sweating, profusely, trembling and acting aggressively. They appear drunk but do not smell of alcohol. What may be wrong with them ?

A. They are suffering from a diabetic emergency  --answer
B. They are suffering from a heart attack
C. They are suffering from an epileptic seizure
D. They are suffering from a stroke

Q. What does ‘A’ stand for in the acronym DRABC ?

A. Ambulance
B. Alert
C. Airway  --answer
D. Accident

Q. What do you do for a victim who has a bleeding injury to the mouth and you are sure about that there is no head neck or spine injury

A. Keep victim seated with head tilted slightly forward
B. Keep victim seated with head tilted slightly backward
C. Have the victim lie down on their side  --answer
D. None of the above

Q. The accepted treatment for a nose bleed

A. Use direct pressure elevation and pressure points to control the bleeding
B. Tilt the head back and tightly squeeze the nostrils
C. Have the victim lean forward apply gentle pressure on the nostril apply cold towels  --answer
D. Lay the victim on his back and treat foe shock apply heat if available


Q. A lung is an individual organ composed of tubular structures and alveoli bound together by fibrous connective tissue

A. true
B. false  --answer

Q. Pelvic fracture can cause severe and even life threatening bleeding in to the

A. Pelvic areas
B. Abdominal cavities
C. Large intestine
D. A & B  --answer

Q. What should you do if someone is unconscious, but you are not a trained first aider?

A. Get medical help immediately
B. Try to perform CPR on the crew
C. Move the crew on to their back  --answer
D. Slap the crew to see if they would wake up

Q. A burn should be immersed or placed under water for at least ______ minutes

A. 5 min
B. 10 min  --answer
C. 15 min
D. 20 min

Q. What will be the effect if a person shows the symptoms of drowsiness ?

A. Activeness
B. Laziness
C. Conscious
D. Unconscious  --answer

Q. What is the definition of the “hurry cases” ?

A. Breathing ,bleeding and broken bones
B. Any condition that threatens victims life  --answer
C. Any illness where the victim vomits
D. Any accident requiring arm sling

Q. An unconscious casualty is lying on their back and has a broken leg, What position is best for the casualty ?

A. Leave them as they
B. Sitting up position
C. Recovery position  --answer
D. Lying down with the legs raised


Q. What is first aid ?

A. Completing a primary survey
B. The first help given to the victim of an accident  --answer
C. Assessing a victims vital signal
D. Treating a victim for shock

Q. When caring for someone who has suffered an electric shock, you would not ______

A. Check breathing and pulse
B. Check for possible fractures  --answer
C. Cool the burned areas
D. Treat for shock

Q. Fluid should not be given by ______ when internal injury is suspected

A. Ears
B. Nose
C. IV injections  --answer
D. Mouth

Q. How should you open the airway of an unconscious casualty ?

A. Head tilt and chin lift  --answer
B. Jaw thrust
C. Head tilt and jaw thrust
D. Lift the chin

Q. What steps would you take to control bleeding from a nose bleed ?

A. Sit casualty down, lean forward and pinch soft part of nose  --answer
B. Sit casualty down, lean backward and pinch soft part of nose
C. Lie casualty down and pinch soft part of nose
D. Lie casualty down and pinch top of the nose

Q. What is the best way to control bleeding ?

A. Direct pressure  --answer
B. Use of a tourniquet
C. Elevation
D. Pressure points

Q. What is fainting ?

A. A response to fear
B. An unexpected collapse
C. A brief loss of consciousness  --answer
D. A sign of flu  

Q. To treat a first degree burn you should ____

A. Apply a good quality burn cream or ointment
B. Clean the area thoroughly with hot soapy water
C. Apply a constricting band between the burn and the heart
D. Apply cool running water until there is little or no remaining pain  --answer

Q. What should a casualty with a severe allergy carry at all times

A. Insulin
B. HCQ
C. Adrenaline  --answer
D. Aspirin

Q. Which of the following behaviors reduces your risk for injury ?

A. Always wearing a safety belt when working
B. Limiting intake of alcohol
C. Limiting intake of foods high in cholesterol
D. Both a and b  --answer

Q. A wound where there is damage to the soft tissue and blood vessel under the skin is called ____

A. A scrape
B. A cut
C. A bruise  --answer
D. A avulsion

Q. What is the ratio of compressions to breaths when performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) ?

A. 15 breaths : 1 compression
B. 20 breaths : 2 compression
C. 30 compressions : 2 breaths
D. 30 breaths : 2 compressions (adults) & 15 breaths : 1 compression (children)  --answer

Q. To flush an eye that has been exposed to a chemical, have the injured eye lower than the unaffected eye.

A. true  --answer
B. false

Q. when caring for a victim who has an objective impaled in their hand you should ____

A. Remove the object, flush with cold water and transport to hospital
B. Immobilize the object by placing several dressings around it  --answer
C. Break object off where it sticks out, and bandage injury
D. None of the above

Q. A victim is coughing up blood with bleeding from the mouth and is tender in the abdomen. Pulse is weak and rapid. The victim is having signs

A. Massive head injuries
B. Internal bleeding  --answer
C. Drug overdose
D. Possible poisoning

Q. Which of the following includes the top layers of skin and involve blistering ?

A. First degree burn
B. Second degree burn  --answer
C. Third degree skin
D. All of the above


Q. When dealing with an unconscious casualty we should check upto ____for normal breathing.

A. 5 seconds
B. 10 seconds  --answer
C. 20 seconds
D. 30 seconds


Q. What is the best method of avoiding accidents in the workplace ?

A. By wearing safety equipment
B. Doing things in one’s own way
C. By observing safety precautions  --answer
D. Doing things with highly skilled working practice

Q. When performing CPR on an adult how deep should the chest compression be ?

A. 1 1/2 inches
B. 2 inches  --answer
C. 2 1/2 inches
D. 3 inches

Q. What is an open fracture ?

A. A fracture in which the bone ends can move around
B. A fracture in which the bone is exposed as the skin is broken  --answer
C. A fracture which causes complications such as a punctured lung
D. A fracture in which the bone has bent and split

Q. What should you do if you think the victim has serious internal bleeding ?

A. Apply heat to the injured areas
B. Give fluids to replace blood loss
C. Call for medical assistance as quickly as possible  --answer
D. Place the victim in a sitting position


Q. When caring for someone who is suffering from frostbite, you should not _____

A. Soak affected part in warm water 100 to 105 degrees
B. Rub vigorously until skin appears red and feels warm  --answer
C. Handle area gently
D. Avoid breaking blisters


Q. When giving care or external bleeding, what should you do first ?

A. Elevate the injury
B. Apply direct pressure  --answer
C. Apply a loose dressing
D. Apply a tourniquet

Q. What is the first thing you should do for someone you suspect has an electrical burn ?

A. Check for breathing and a pulse
B. Check to see if electricity is turned off  --answer
C. Check for severe bleeding
D. Check for shock

Q. Of the following casualties, which would you care for first/ the casualty who is

A. In shock without apparent injuries but conscious
B. Unconscious and lying on his back
C. Bleeding from the forehead but conscious
D. Unconscious and lying on his stomach  --answer

Q. The type of shock that is caused by a severe infection is called

A. Septic  --answer
B. Psychogenic
C. Cardiogenic
D. Haemorrhage


Q. The accepted treatment for a femur or thigh fracture is

A. Place a short padded splint on each side of the leg
B. This type of fracture is best handled by a traction splint applied by those with special training  --answer
C. Move the victim before properly applying a leg splint
D. Bind both legs with two long splints using two cravats, one above and one below the break

Q. If a known diabetic appears has missed their lunch and appears confused and vague, you should do what immediately?

A. Give them a sandwich to eat
B. Encourage them to take their insulin
C. Call an ambulance
D. Give them a sugary drink  --answer

Q. What is the proper treatment for Heat Stroke?

A. Rapid cooling of the body  --answer
B. Covering with a blanket
C. Exercise
D. Drinking Alcohol

Q. A person suffering from Hypoglycemia or low blood sugar can be quickly treated by ?

A. Making the person rest
B. Making the person drink water
C. Providing food with high sugar content such as chocolate, peanut butter, or even plain sugar  --answer

Q. If a person suffering from possible broken bones and internal injuries is correctly being administered first aid, what statement is true?

A. The person should be examined on the scene and then walked to a bunk to await the arrival of medical assistance
B. The person should be moved from the scene but not allowed to walk on their own power without assistance
C. The person should not be allowed to lie down where injured but should be moved to a chair or bunk
D. The person should not be moved (unless remaining on the scene is unsafe), but made comfortable until medical assistance arrives  --answer

Q. The first point in an emergency to remember is :

A. Call the doctor
B. Don't panic  --answer
C. Run from the site
D. Call for help

Q. To assess if a person has had a stroke ask them to:

A. blow a kiss
B. smile  --answer
C. stand up
D. Say their name

Q. First aid is required when

A. The person next to you is injured  --answer
B. The person next to you is dead
C. The person next to you is behaving abnormally
D. The person next to you is angry

Q. The contents of the first aid kit include the following except

A. Micropore
B. Macropore  --answer
C. Bandages
D. Scissors

Q. What is the most serve type of burn?

A. 1st Degree Burn
B. 2nd Degree Burn
C. 3rd Degree Burn  --answer

Q. If someone faints, the first thing you should do is:

A. Place cool water on their face
B. Have them lie on their tummy
C. Raise their feet  --answer
D. Give them something to drink


Q. Which of these are not found in a First Aid Kit?

A. Bandages
B. Lodine prep pads
C. Narcotics  --answer
D. Burn Creams

Q. Hyperglycaemia is :

A. Increased glysine
B. Increased sugar  --answer
C. Decreased glysine
D. Decreased sugar

Q. First aid means _____ ?

A. Providing CPR to a person in distress
B. The treatment of broken bones
C. Immediate & temporary basic medical care to an ill or injured person  --answer
D. Providing the proper dosage of medications

Q. A victim that has come in contact with poison ivy should:

A. Wait at least 20 minutes before washing the effected area with hot water and soap
B. Rinse the effected area immediately with soap and water  --answer
C. Continue to wear clothes that have come in contact with the plant
D. Immediately scratch and rub the affected area to provide long-term relief from the itching

Q. The most effective first aid treatment for chemical burns is to immediately _________.

A. Apply ointment to the burned area
B. Flood the affected area with water  --answer
C. Wrap the burn with sterile dressing
D. Apply an ice pack to the burned area

Q. First aid treatment for battery acid or alkali burns, especially

A. Flushing with large amounts of fresh water and seeking medical attention ashore or by radio  --answer
B. Wiping the affected area with a clean dry cloth and resting quietly for several hours
C. Drying the acid or alkali with a rag followed by applying a light cream


Q. Water tight utility forms part of

A. Nurses appendage
B. Doctors baggage
C. First aid kit  --answer
D. The tool box

Q. What is hypothermia?

A. Low body temperature  --answer
B. High body temperature
C. Blood vessels move closer to skin
D. Blood vessels move away from the skin


Q. Doctors recommend the RICE method for treating sprains. Rest, Ice, _____, and Elevate?

A. Cover
B. Clean
C. Compress  --answer
D. Comfort

Q. Which form of hyperthermia (high body temperature) is more severe?

A. Heat stress
B. Cramps
C. Heat stroke  --answer
D. Heat exhaustion

Q. The first aid symbol is

A. The maltese cross  --answer
B. The cross of gibraltar
C. The Sudanese cross
D. The cross of the dead

Q. When it is necessary to remove a victim from a life threatening situation, the person giving first aid must

A. Pull the victim by the feet
B. Avoid subjecting the victim to any unnecessary disturbance  --answer
C. Carry the victim to a location where injuries can be assessed
D. Place the victim on a stretcher before attempting removal

Q. What is the primary purpose of a splint applied in first aid?

A. Control bleeding
B. Reduce pain
C. Immobilize a fracture  --answer
D. Reset the bone

Q. First Aid Encompasses DRABCD? Danger, Response, Airway, Breathing, Compression/Circulation, and ______?

A. Diet
B. Defibrillation  --answer
C. Do & Don'ts
D. Damage

Q. First aid is required when

A. The person next to you is injured  --answer
B. The person next to you is dead
C. The person next to you is behaving abnormally
D. The person next to you is angry

Q. If a person suffering from possible broken bones and internal injuries is correctly being administered first aid, what statement is true ?

A. The person should be examined on the scene and then walked to a bunk to await the arrival of medical assistance
B. The person should be moved from the scene but not allowed to walk on their own power without assistance
C. The person should not be allowed to lie down where injured but should be moved to a chair or bunk
D. The person should not be moved (unless remaining on the scene is unsafe), but made comfortable until medical assistance arrives  --answer

Q. If a person is experienceing heavy bleeding you should ?

A. Apply pressure and elevate the wound to slow blood flow  --answer
B. Attempt to burn the wound to stop bleeding
C. Clean and Rinse the wound
D. Remove bandages and wraps


Q. Who is required to show proficiency in medical first aid training on board a vessel?

A. All crewmembers
B. The Master
C. All Officer's  --answer

Q. The objective of first aid is :

A. To diagnose and injures and conditions
B. To determine priorities
C. To give immediate treatment  --answer
D. To shift patient to hospital

Q. What are the three aim's of first Aid? Preserve Life, Prevent futher harm, _____.

A. Promote Recovery  --answer
B. Provide comfort
C. Post Treatment

Q. Poisoning can occur by the following except:

A. Injection
B. Inhalation
C. Infection  --answer
D. Ingestion

Q. If a known epileptic is experiencing a seizure, you should:

A. Restrain them by holding their shoulders
B. Call an ambulance
C. Place a pillow or towel under their head and feet
D. Remove furniture or other close objects  --answer

Q. What is the cause of cramps ?

A. Overexertion
B. Lactic Acid build up due to inadequate oxygen or lack of water  --answer
C. Lack of sleep

Q. Anaphylaxis is treated with

A. analgesic tablet
B. a tablet under the tongue
C. an Epi pen injection of adrenalin  --answer
D. an injection of insulin


Q. The aim of first aid does not include :

A. Preserve life
B. Prevention of further harm
C. Involving relatives  --answer
D. Promoting recovery

Q. When the person is unconscious you check the following except :

A. Air way
B. Circulation
C. Breathing
D. Bleeding points  --answer

Q. Which should NOT be a treatment for a person who has received a head injury and is groggy or unconscious?

A. Give a stimulant.  --answer
B. Elevate his head.
C. Stop severe bleeding.
D. Treat for shock.

Q. Where there are multiple accident victims, which type of injury should be the first to receive emergency treatment?

A. Severe shock  --answer
B. Eye injuries
C. Burns
D. Major multiple fractures

Q. Who will check the pulse of the casualty

A. First person
B. Second person  --answer
C. Casualty itself
D. No need to check

Q. choking is commonly caused by all except

A. swallowing large pieces of improperly chewed food.
B. Drinking alcohol before or during meals.
C. Laughing while eating.
D. Bending during meals.  --answer

Q. Finger sweep choking is

A. Sweeping with the finger
B. Slipping the finger into the mouth
C. Hooking motion to dislarge object  --answer
D. To push the object deeper

Q. Which of the following steps should normally be taken first by those who have boarded a lifeboat in an emergency situation?

A. Ration food and water supplies
B. Search for survivors  --answer
C. Determine position and closest point of land
D. Check pyrotechnic supplies

Q. Treatment of sunstroke consists principally of

A. Cooling, removing to shaded area, and lying down  --answer
B. Bathing with rubbing alcohol
C. Drinking ice water

Q. In partial airways obstruction symptoms include the following except

A. Weak or ineffective cough
B. High-pitched noise when inhaling
C. High-pitched noise when exhaling  --answer
D. Cyanosis of the skin

Q. Severe exposure to chlorine gas can be fatal. Chlorine gas is primarily a _____.

A. Respiratory irritant  --answer
B. Skin burning agent
C. Blood poisoning agent
D. Nerve paralyzing irritant

Q. In reviving a person who has been overcome by gas fumes, which of the following treatments would you AVOID using?

A. Giving stimulants  --answer
B. Prompt removal of the patient from the suffocating atmosphere
C. Determine the need for, and administer CPR if appropriate
D. Keeping him warm and comfortable

Q. After an accident the victim may go into shock and die. What should be done to help prevent shock?

A. Slightly elevate the head and feet.
B. Keep the person awake.
C. Keep the person lying down and at a comfortable temperature.  --answer
D. Give the person a stimulant to increase blood flow.

Q. Which of the following precautions should be taken when treating burns caused by contact with dry lime?

A. Water should be applied in a fine spray.
B. The burned area should be immersed in water.
C. The entire burn area should be covered with ointment.
D. Before washing with water, the lime should be brushed away gently and removed from skin contact.   --answer

Q. Which procedure should NOT be done for a person who has fainted?

A. Revive the person with smelling salts.
B. Loosen the clothing.
C. Lay the person horizontally.
D. Give pain reliever.  --answer

Q. In the unconscious person the cause of the obstructions is the

A. Saliva
B. Tongue  --answer
C. Dentures
D. Loss teeth

Q. To treat a person suffering from heat exhaustion, you should _____.

A. Administer artificial respiration
B. Put him in a tub of ice water
C. Give him sips of cool water  --answer
D. Cover him with a light cloth

Q. In partial airways obstructions the typical symptom is

A. Violent behavior
B. Breathing difficulty
C. Excessive cough  --answer
D. Fainting

Q. How will you open the casualties airway?

A. Head lift / chin tilt
B. Head tilt / chin lift  --answer
C. Head tilt / open the mouth
D. Chin lift / open the mouth 

Q. Persons who have swallowed a non-petroleum based poison are given large quantities of warm soapy water or warm salt water to _____.

A. Induce vomiting  --answer
B. Absorb the poison from the blood
C. Neutralize the poison in the blood
D. Increase the digestive process and eliminate the poison


Q. Which of the following conditions is NOT a symptom of traumatic shock?

A. Slow deep breathing  --answer
B. Pale and cold skin
C. Weak and rapid pulse
D. Restlessness and anxiety

Q. What danger to personnel exists when a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher is discharged in a small enclosed space?

A. Second degree burns
B. Electric shock
C. Suffocation --answer
D. Burst eardrums

Q. Airways obstruction is known as

A. pocking
B. hacking
C. choking  --answer
D. picking

Q. Treatment(s) of heat exhaustion consist(s) of

A. moving to a shaded area and lying down  --answer
B. bathing with rubbing alcohol
C. placing the patient in a tub of cold water

Q. How many compressions should you give per cycle?

A. 2
B. 5   --answer
C. 10
D. 20

Q. The preferred method of controlling external bleeding is by_________.

A. Direct pressure on the wound  --answer
B. Elevating the wounded area
C. Pressure on a pressure point
D. A tourniquet above the wound

Q. What action should be taken for a patient suffering from heat exhaustion?

A. Moved to a cool room and told to lie down  --answer
B. Kept standing and encouraged to walk slowly and continuously
C. Given a glass of water and told to return to work after 15 minutes of rest

Q. Who will call the local emergency number?

A. First person
B. Second person  --answer
C. Casualty
D. No need to inform the local emergency

Q. Airways obstruction defined as

A. Failure of air entered the lungs
B. Failure to breath
C. Block in the passage of air to the lungs  --answer
D. Breath holding

Q. The ratio of compression and breath for infant is

A. 30:2
B. 15:2
C. 15:1
D. 5:1  --answer

Q. Where should you place your fist on the casualty in the CPR

A. Right side Ribs
B. Left side Ribs
C. Middle of the sternum  --answer
D. Lower of the sternum

Q. Chemical burns are caused by the skin coming in contact with __________.

A. Acids or alkalies  --answer
B. Diesel oil
C. Acids, but not alkalies
D. Alkalies, but not acids

Q. The proper stimulant for an unconscious person is a/an

A. Vigorous shaking
B. Sequence of back blows
C. Precordial thump
D. Ammonia inhalant  --answer

Q. Which of the following is NOT a treatment for traumatic shock?

A. Keep the patient warm, but not hot.
B. Have the injured person lie down.
C. Massage the arms and legs to restore circulation.  --answer
D. Relieve the pain of the injury.


Q. The most beneficial assistance for a person having an epileptic convulsion is to _________.

A. Give the victim artificial respiration
B. Completely restrain the victim
C. Give the victim one 30mg tablet of Phenobarbital
D. Keep him from injuring himself --answer

Q. Treatment of frostbite is to ____ .

A. Rub with ice or snow
B. Rub briskly to restore circulation
C. Wrap tightly in warm cloths
D. Warm exposed parts rapidly  --answer

Q. Physical data on a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) which describes chemicals that produce health effects requiring medical attention where damage may be permanent but is neither life-threatening nor seriously disabling, is called__________ .

A. Moderate exposure level
B. High toxicity
C. High exposure level
D. Moderate toxicity  --answer

Q. How will you give rescue breath to casualty?

A. Mouth to Mouth and nose respiration
B. Mouth to nose respiration
C. Mouth to Mouth respiration  --answer

Q. When a rescuer discovers an electrical burn victim in the vicinity of electrical equipment or wiring, his first step is to _______.

A. Flush water over any burned area of the patient
B. Apply ointment to the burned areas on the patient
C. Shutdown electrical power in the area  --answer
D. Remove the patient from the vicinity of the live electrical equipment or wiring

Q. Which one is the first step in chest compression for infants

A. Place the middle and index fingers on the breast bone  --answer
B. Place the index and small fingers on the breast bone
C. Place the heel of one hand on the sternum and the heel of the other on top
D. Place the heel of one hand on the Ribs and the heel of the other is near the first hand

Q. The symptoms of heat exhaustion are _________.

A. Slow and strong pulse
B. Flushed and dry skin
C. Slow and deep breathing
D. Pale and clammy skin  --answer

Q. Where there are multiple accident victims, which injuries should be the FIRST to receive emergency treatment?

A. Major multiple fractures
B. Eye injuries
C. Back injuries with spinal cord damage
D. Airway and breathing difficulties   --answer

Q. Acute breathing difficulty can occur following all below except

A. Electric shocks
B. Drowning
C. Lumbar spinal injuries  --answer
D. Allergic reactions

Q. Who will monitor the casualty's chest during the rescue breathing

A. First person  --answer
B. Second person
C. Casualty itself
D. No need to monitor

Q. One of the principal dangers inherent in liquefied petroleum gas is__________.

A. As it warms up it becomes heavier than air
B. The way it reacts with sea water
C. The strong odor it produces
D. Its low temperature causes frostbite or freezing  --answer

Q. Which statement about the hospital space on a cargo ship is TRUE?

A. The hospital may be used for disciplinary confinement if it is not being used for treatment.
B. The hospital space must have both a bathtub and shower.
C. A hospital is required on all vessels with a crew of 12 or more if it makes overnight voyages.
D. If a ship has a crew of forty-five who do not have their own room, the hospital must have four berths.  --answer

Q. A rescuer can most easily determine whether or not an adult victim has a pulse by checking the pulse at the __________.

A. Carotid artery in the neck  --answer
B. Femoral artery in the groin
C. Brachial artery in the arm
D. Radial artery in the wrist

Q. Severe airway burns will cause __________ .

A. Nausea
B. Reddening of cheeks
C. Complete obstruction of respiratory passages  --answer
D. Nosebleed

Q. If a victim is unconscious, you should first look for evidence of __________.

A. High fever
B. Head injury
C. Broken limbs
D. Irregular breathing  --answer

Q. Symptoms of sugar diabetes include _________ .

A. Increased appetite and thirst  --answer
B. Decreased appetite and thirst
C. Gain in weight
D. Elevated temperature


Q. EXCEPT when suffering from a head or chest injury a patient in shock should be placed in which position?

A. Head up and feet down
B. Head down and feet up  --answer
C. Flat on back with head and feet elevated
D. Arms above the head

Q. The best treatment for preventing traumatic shock after an accident is to_________.

A. Have the victim exercise to increase circulation
B. Keep the victim from electrical equipment
C. Keep the victim warm and dry while lying down  --answer
D. Apply ice packs and avoid excitement


Q. Which danger exists to people when CO2 is discharged into a small enclosed space?

A. Damaged eardrums
B. Electric shock
C. Frostbite
D. Respiratory arrest  --answer

Q. Heat exhaustion is caused by excessive __________.

A. Loss of body temperature
B. Loss of water and salt from the body  --answer
C. Gain in body temperature
D. Intake of water when working or exercising

Q. When providing first aid to a victim of gas poisoning, the MOST important symptom to check for is

A. Suspension of breathing  --answer
B. Unconsciousness
C. Slow and weak pulse
D. Cold and moist skin

Q. Provided every effort is made to preserve body moisture content by avoiding perspiration, how long is it normally possible to survive without water?

A. Up to 3 days
B. 8 to 12 days  --answer
C. 15 to 20 days
D. 25 to 30 days

Q. What will happened if the person exposed to cold temperature for long periods

A. Hypertrophy
B. Hyperplasia
C. Hyperthermia
D. Hypothermia  --answer

Q. What are the common survival technique except?

A. Down proofing
B. Treading water
C. Swimming fast  --answer
D. H.E.L.P position

Q. What is the projected survival time if you are treading water?

A. 4 hours
B. 1.5 hours
C. 2.75 hours
D. 2 hours  --answer

Q. What will do if the victim has no pulse and respiration?

A. Live the victim as such
B. Take him to hospital immediately
C. Start CPR immediately  --answer

Q. The normal temperature of our body is

A. 96.6 degree F
B. 97.6 degree F
C. 98.6 degree F  --answer
D. 99.6 degree F

Q. Evaporation is water loss due to

A. Sweating  --answer
B. Courting
C. Carelessness
D. Panting

Q. At what temperature does shivering stop?

A. 93-90
B. 90-86  --answer
C. 86-82
D. 82-78

Q. What is the normal percentage of salt content contained in bodily fluids?

A. 2%
B. 3.50%
C. 0.90%  --answer
D. 1%

Q. Symptoms of hypothermia except

A. Stumbling
B. Amnesia
C. Anemia  --answer
D. Hallucination

Q. Hypothermia is defined as a core body temperature under:

A. 90 degrees Fahrenheit
B. 92 degrees Fahrenheit
C. 95 degrees Fahrenheit  --answer
D. 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit

Q. How far have some good swimmers been able to swim before being overcome by hypothermia?

A. 1 mile
B. 0.5 miles
C. 2.5 miles
D. 0.8 miles  --answer

Q. Water pulls heat from the body at what rate?

A. 10 times faster than air
B. 20 times faster than air
C. 30 times faster than air
D. 25 times faster than air  --answer

Q. What reason does Hypothermia occur?

A. Slim and weak persons who have inadequate body fat and where insulation to cold is poor.  --answer
B. The person did not eat enough.
C. The person put on to many layers of clothing

Q. Which of the following is a symptom of hypothermia?

A. IUnflammation
B. Jitters  --answer
C. Loss of coordination
D. Throwing up

Q. Heat is lost from the body by all except

A. Rotation
B. Convection
C. Convention  --answer
D. Conduction

Q. Humans are

A. Cold animal
B. Warm Animals  --answer
C. Adapt both warm and cold

Q. What symptom indicates a patient needs emergency care for hypothermia?

A. Stumbling
B. Blueness of skin
C. Disorientation  --answer
D. Poor coordination

Q. Thickness of speech is a symptom classified as?

A. Symptom observed in a emergency situation
B. Symptom observed by others  --answer
C. Emergency care symptom

Q. What is the process of heat loss through sweating called?

A. Conduction
B. Evaporation  --answer
C. Radiation
D. Convection

Q. At which method, heat is lost by sweating?

A. Evaporation  --answer
B. Conduction
C. Radiation
D. convection

Q. Which of the following signs may go away as the hypothermia worsens?

A. Slurred speech
B. Confusion
C. Shivering  --answer
D. Unconsciousness

Q. At what temperature does hypothermia occur?

A. 98.6
B. 90
C. 93
D. 95  --answer

Q. At what stage of immersion does the falling body temperature become a primary hazard?

A. Initial immersion
B. Short term immersion
C. Long term immersion  --answer
D. Post immersion

Q. What happened If the body temperature is fall into 90-86 F?

A. Shivering begins
B. Stumbling
C. Mental sluggishness
D. Inability to stand  --answer

Q. Which of the following is least likely to get hypotherima?

A. Chronically ill
B. Drunk
C. Very young
D. Strong  --answer

Q. Incorrect treatment may result in a condition known as?

A. The bends
B. After drop  --answer
C. Restore circulation

Q. What is the percentage of heat lost from your head?

A. 25%
B. 75%
C. 50%  --answer
D. 15%

Q. Signs observed in hypothermia

A. Slowing of pace
B. Stumbling
C. Thinness of speech  --answer
D. Drowsiness

Q. Which of the following would come first?

A. Removing wet clothing  --answer
B. Wrapping the victim in a warm blanket
C. Placing heat packs on the victim's pulse points

Q. What is the distance a normal swimmer can swim ?

A. 8 miles
B. 1 mile
C. 100 yards
D. 500 yards  --answer

Q. Radiation means

A. Indirect transfer of heat to the environment
B. Direct transfer of heat to the environment  --answer
C. Direct observation from the environment
D. Direct passage of heat to the environment

Q. What is one of the critical non-thermal problems that occurs when adrift at sea?

A. Motion sickness
B. Sunburn
C. Dehydration  --answer
D. Salt water ulcers 

Q. What is the first thing you should do for a hypothermic person?

A. Check breath  --answer
B. Check pulse
C. Check heartbeat

Q. Unconscious and death occur at temperature of

A. 90°-86° F
B. 86°-90° F
C. 86°-82° F
D. 82°-78° F   --answer

Q. How much percentage increase in your survival time in the sea if you are in huddle position?

A. 20%
B. 50%  --answer
C. 60%
D. 75% 

Q. What causes hypothermia

A. Food poisoning
B. Extreme cold  --answer
C. Extreme heat
D. An animal bite

Q. Which of the following is not a sign of hypothermia?

A. Confusion
B. Coma
C. Fumbling hands
D. Sweating   --answer

Q. What is the time duration for raising head from sea in down proofing technique?

A. 5-7 seconds
B. 5-7 minutes
C. 10-15 minutes
D. 10-15 seconds  --answer

Q. What is the normal temperature of the human body?

A. 96.6 degree Fahrenheit
B. 97.6 degree Fahrenheit
C. 98.6 degree Fahrenheit  --answer
D. 99.6 degree Fahrenheit

Q. How long should a person remain still after being removed from cold water?

A. 30 min  --answer
B. 1 hour
C. 15 min

Q. Goose bumps is roughness of the skin caused by

A. Erection of skin in response to cold or water
B. Erection of papillae in response to cold or water  --answer
C. Erection of subcutaneous tissue in response to cold or water
D. Erection of muscle in response to cold or water

Q. What is the first thing to do for a hypothermia victim?

A. Check body temperature
B. Cover the victim with a blanket
C. Move the victim to a warmer environment
D. Check the pulse and see if the victim is breathing  --answer

Q. Endotracheal tube is used for

A. Air enter into the lugs  --answer
B. Food enter into the stomach
C. Drug enter into the vein
D. Drug enter in to stomach

Q. When performing abdominal thrusts on a patient who has a completely blocked airway, where should you position yourself?

A. On their side
B. Straddle their thighs  --answer
C. On their back

Q. The phrase in “the services of the ship” means

A. He first board the vessel to the time he departs from her  --answer
B. The relationship between captain and the crew
C. The relationship between captain and the doctor
D. The relationship between nurse and patient


Q. What is the average size for adult female endotracheal tube

A. ID= 7.0 mm  --answer
B. ID= 8.0 mm
C. ID= 9.0 mm
D. ID= 6.0 mm

Q. In CPR you asses for

A. ABC  --answer
B. BBC
C. ATC
D. ALS

Q. At what degree angle the catheter should be insert?

A. 10
B. 30  --answer
C. 45
D. 90 

Q. Medicare service units are capable of handling technical operations like

A. Extrication
B. Extraction  --answer
C. Water rescue
D. Search and rescue

Q. What are the intravenous injection site except

A. Veins of the dorsal
B. Veins of the forearm
C. Veins of the thigh   --answer
D. Vein of the foot

Q. Greenstick fracture is:

A. Fracture that happens on a twig
B. Fracture that is hardly noticed
C. Fracture in children  --answer
D. An irreparable fracture


Q. What instrument is used for air enter to the lungs

A. Endotracheal tube  --answer
B. Intravascular access
C. Defibrillator

Q. BLS is

A. Basic life science
B. Bend lean and support
C. Basic life support  --answer
D. Basic living support

Q. How is the drug epinephrine is administered if not attainable of intravascular access

A. Intramuscular
B. Oral
C. Tracheal tube  --answer

Q. What is an essential part of life support for people with respiratory arrest?

A. Providing breaths
B. Recirculating the blood in their body  --answer
C. Defibrillation

Q. What do you use to give CPR to an infant or child?

A. Hand
B. Palm
C. Middle and Index finger  --answer

Q. What is the defibrillation energy level for the third shock

A. 100 J
B. 200 J
C. 200-300 J
D. 360 J when using monophasic defibrillator   --answer

Q. What are the nonabsorbable sutures material

A. Dexon
B. Nylon  --answer
C. Vicryl 

Q. If a person is choking, you should do nothing as long as:

A. They are coughing  --answer
B. They are still conscious
C. Their face has not turned blue

Q. What is the length of adult male endotracheal tube

A. 21 cm
B. 22 cm
C. 23 cm  --answer
D. 24 cm

Q. Maintenance and cure is

A. The duty of the ship owner's
B. The job of the doctor
C. The job of the nurse
D. A contractual from of compensation given by general maritime law to a seamen  --answer

Q. What are the apparatus required for intravenous injection except?

A. Intravenous fluid
B. Endotracheal tube  --answer
C. Catheter
D. Trocar 

Q. How much compression should be given per minute?

A. 80-100 with two rescuers  --answer
B. 80-90
C. 70-100
D. 70-90 

Q. Who needs the rescue breathing?

A. Respiratory arrest  --answer
B. Normal person
C. Diabetic patient

Q. What does Respiratory arrest mean?

A. A person can breath on their own
B. A person is struggling to breath
C. A person has stopped breathing  --answer

Q. What is the average size for adult male endotracheal tube

A. ID= 7.0 mm
B. ID= 8.0 mm  --answer
C. ID= 9.0 mm
D. ID= 6.0 mm

Q. What does the ABC's for first aid stand for?

A. The letters in the alphabet
B. Air, Breathing, Concentration
C. Airway, Breathing, Circulation  --answer

Q. CPR consists of

A. Two full breaths and 10 pushes
B. Four full breaths and 20 pushes
C. Two full breaths and 30 pushes  --answer
D. Four full breaths and 30 pushes

Q. What is the most common cause of airway obstruction in someone who is unconscious?

A. Food
B. Drinking
C. Tongue --answer

Q. You are administering chest compressions during CPR. Where on the victim's body should the pressure be applied?

A. Sternum  --answer
B. Abdomen
C. Upper chest
D. Left chest over the heart 

Q. How many compression should give per cycle?

A. 25
B. 35
C. 30  --answer
D. 20

Q. What is the compression rate for CPR?

A. 10 compressions a minute
B. 25 compressions a minute
C. 50 compressions a minute
D. 100 - 120 compressions a minute with one rescuer  --answer

Q. If the injection site is dermis, at what angle the needle should be?

A. 10°
B. 20°
C. 45°  --answer
D. 90° 

Q. How many type of sutures available

A. 1
B. 2
C. 3  --answer
D. 4 

Q. Which one is the first step in chest compression

A. Place the heel of one hand on the Ribs and the heel of the other on top
B. Place the heel of one hand on the sternum and the heel of the other is near the first hand
C. Place the heel of one hand on the sternum and the heel of the other on top  --answer
D. Place the heel of one hand on the Ribs and the heel of the other is near the first hand

Q. Before CPR is started, you should _____.

A. Establish an open airway
B. Treat any bleeding wounds
C. Insure the victim is conscious  --answer
D. Make the victim comfortable

Q. What is the defibrillation energy level for the first shock

A. 100 J
B. 200 J  --answer
C. 200-300 J
D. 360 J

Q. When providing Rescue Breathing a breath should be given every _____?

A. 1 second
B. 5 seconds  --answer
C. 10 seconds
D. 30 seconds 

Q. What is the proper treatment for frostbite?

A. Rubbing affected area with ice or snow
B. Rubbing affected area briskly to restore circulation
C. Wrapping area tightly in warm cloths
D. Warming exposed parts rapidly  --answer

Q. The cost of the treatment on board the ship when reasonable is borne by

A. The patios
B. The shipowner  --answer
C. The captain
D. The crew member

Q. Medicare service is

A. A simple transportation system
B. A first aid system
C. A system in which medicare is given along with transportation  --answer
D. A system were doctors and nurses are actively involved

Q. You are attempting to administer CPR to a victim. When you blow into his mouth it is apparent that no air is getting into the lungs. What should you do?

A. Raise the victim's head higher than his feet
B. Blow harder to force the air past the tongue
C. Re-tip the head and try again  --answer
D. Press on the victim's lungs so that air pressure will blow out any obstruction

Q. How long should you check the pulse on a person?

A. 5-10 seconds  --answer
B. 30 seconds
C. 1 min
D. Until found

Q. If the injection site is hypodermis, at what angle the needle should be?

A. 10°
B. 20°
C. 45°
D. 90° --answer

Q. When do you stop CPR?

A. After 5 minutes
B. When tired
C. After 10 minutes
D. Until they start breathing or relieved by someone  --answer

Q. How deep should a wound be that requires a suture?

A. 1/2 inch deep
B. 1/4 inch deep
C. 2-3 inch deep  --answer
D. 1-2 inch deep

Q. The person who can provide aid on board the ship is

A. A doctor
B. A nurse
C. The shipowner
D. Any member of the crew --answer

Q. What is the defibrillation energy level for the second shock

A. 100 J
B. 200 J
C. 200-300 J  --answer
D. 360 J

Q. How will you locate the lower edge of the victim

A. With help of Middle and index finger  --answer
B. With help of Thumb and index finger
C. With help of Middle and thumb finger
D. With help of Middle and small finger


Q. Approximately how many people are living with HIV worldwide?

A. 33 million  --answer
B. 23 million
C. 13 million

Q. The parts of the HIV virus include all except

A. Lipid membrane
B. Matrix
C. Capsid
D. DNA  --answer

Q. How many species of HIV is know to exist?

A. 4
B. 1
C. 2  --answer
D. 3

Q. The Acute Infection period lasts?

A. 6 to 12 weeks  --answer
B. 2 to 4 weeks
C. 12 to 24 weeks
D. 8 to 10 weeks

Q. Does HIV only affect gay people?

A. Yes
B. No  --answer
C. Only gay men
D. Only gay women 

Q. Acute infection in HIV may present as

A. Diarrhoea
B. Vomiting
C. Swollen lymph glands  --answer
D. Swelling of the feet


Q. When the HIV become resistance to their drugs

A. If only one drug taken  --answer
B. If only two drugs taken
C. If more than two drugs taken

Q. The only way to stop the spread of HIV infection is through:

A. Regular treatment of infected persons
B. Isolation of infected persons
C. Prevention  --answer
D. Avoiding direct contact with infected person


Q. What color will appear if patient serum is positive for HIV antibody in ELISA

A. Yellow
B. White
C. Purple
D. Green   --answer

Q. HIV virus enters the penis through the

A. Glans penis
B. Foreskin
C. Shaft of penis
D. Urethra  --answer

Q. Approximately how many people are infected with HIV worldwide?

A. 20 million
B. 70 million
C. 150 million
D. 60 million  --answer

Q. What are the infectious fluid that transmit the HIV Infections in human body except?

A. Blood
B. Sweat  --answer
C. Semen
D. Vaginal secretion

Q. HIV virus can replicate itself inside

A. Human cells  --answer
B. Mosquito cells
C. Monkey cells
D. Pig cells

Q. What is the difference between HIV and AIDS?

A. HIV is a virus and AIDS is a bacterial disease
B. There is no difference between HIV and AIDS
C. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS  --answer

Q. Health promotion and disease prevention should be emphasized in

A. Medical education  --answer
B. Primary education
C. High education
D. College education 

Q. With onset of the AIDS

A. Skin problems and mouth ulcers recur  --answer
B. Skin problems cease to occur
C. Mouth ulcers heal rapidly
D. Skin problems occur but mouth ulcers don’t

Q. Which type of treatment can recover the damage that HIV might have caused already?

A. Antiretroviral drug treatments  --answer
B. Vaccine Therapy
C. Radiotherapy 

Q. What are available treatment for HIV/AIDS except?

A. Antiretroviral Drug treatments
B. Vaccine treatment  --answer
C. Combination therapy 

Q. ELISA is a test to screen for:

A. Red blood cells
B. White blood cells
C. HIV antibodies  --answer

Q. What does the standard HIV test identify?

A. RNA strands
B. T-cell count
C. Antibodies --answer

Q. AIDS stands for _____

A. Auto Immune Deficiency Syndrome
B. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome  --answer
C. Amniotic Immune Deficiency Syndrome


Q. What is the most common AIDS related infection?

A. Pink eye
B. Sinus
C. Tuberculosis   --answer

Q. At the beginning of therapy, the first combination of drugs is called:

A. Front line therapy
B. Third line therapy
C. First line therapy  --answer

Q. How many steps present in HIV life cycle

A. 2
B. 4  --answer
C. 5
D. 7

Q. Once the virus entered the cells it leaves behind

A. The capsid
B. Lipid membrane
C. The envelop  --answer
D. Matrix protein

Q. Mother to baby transmission occurs through all except

A. Long before delivery  --answer
B. Just before delivery
C. During childbirth
D. Through breast milk

Q. What is First line therapy

A. The first single drug for HIV treatments
B. The First combination drugs for HIV treatments  --answer
C. The second single drug for HIV when the first drug is resistance
D. The second combination drug for HIV when the first drug is resistance 

Q. AIDS is caused by:

A. HPV
B. Airborne particles
C. HIV  --answer

Q. Clinical latency in HIV infection refers to

A. The number of virus killed by the body
B. The number viral particles killed by the body
C. Increase the number of viral practical in the blood stream
D. Decrease the number of viral practical in the blood stream  --answer

Q. HIV can only replicate itself inside:

A. The bloodstream
B. The human cell  --answer
C. Saliva

Q. The escape of HIV from the immune response can be caused by

A. Immune escape
B. Iso-tope variation
C. Epitope variation  --answer
D. Immune variation

Q. Direct blood contact occurs through all except

A. Needle sharing
B. Transfusion
C. Sharing of beds  --answer
D. Accident in health care settings

Q. HIV affects a person's immune system, which makes them more vulnerable to infections, and can make them very ill.

A. It makes a person lose weight very suddenly
B. It reduces the body’s core temperature  --answer
C. It attacks the immune system

Q. Physican’s goals in HIV prevention should be limited to

A. Helping patient assess their own risks  --answer
B. Self counseling and testing
C. Resisting good prevention practice
D. Determine patient disinterest changing behavior

Q. Taking two or more antiretroviral drugs at a time is called?

A. Clinical latency
B. Combination therapy  --answer
C. Combative therapy

Q. At what stage the virus can be found in bloodstream

A. Window period
B. Acute HIV Infections
C. Latent reservoir  --answer
D. Onset of Disease 

Q. HIV prevention can be made difficult by all except

A. Physicians ambiguity
B. Social ambiguity
C. Language barrier
D. Failure to convince patient  --answer

Q. What is Second line therapy

A. The first single drug for HIV treatments
B. The First combination drugs for HIV treatments
C. The second single drug for HIV when the first drug is resistance
D. The second combination drug for HIV when the first drug is resistance  --answer

Q. HIV/AIDS is not transmitted by:

A. Blood transfusions
B. Organ or tissue transplant
C. Use of contaminated injection
D. Sharing toilets or wasting facilities --answer

Q. Some signs of someone with Bulimia is:

A. Fears weight gain
B. Goes out to social events frequently
C. Eats high calorie meals
D. Is happy with their body and the way the look  --answer

Q. Research of bulimia nervosa has found low levels of:

A. Alpha-dopamine
B. Beta-serotonin
C. Beta-serotonin  --answer
D. Alpha-amphetamine

Q. How often should an adult have a tetanus-diphtheria booster?

A. 5 years
B. 2 years
C. 10 years  --answer
D. 15 years 

Q. What percentage of your diet should fat make up?

A. About 10 percent of your daily calories
B. About 20 percent of your daily calories
C. About 30 percent of your daily calories  --answer
D. About 40 percent of your daily calories


Q. Too much alcohol can damage the __________ and contribute to some cancers, such as throat and liver cancer.

A. kidney
B. Liver  --answer
C. Brain 

Q. The Norovirus is a type of:

A. Immune illness
B. Epidermal Infection
C. Gastrointestinal illness  --answer
D. Neurological Infection

Q. In animal research, lessons to which part of the brain have been shown to cause appetite loss, resulting in a self-starvation syndrome?

A. Lateral hypothalamus  --answer
B. Cerebellum
C. Amygdala
D. Basal ganglia 

Q. How often should you have a Pap smear?

A. Once a year after puberty
B. Once a year after either turning 21 or having sexual intercourse for the first time
C. Once a year after age 21 and twice every year after 30  --answer
D. Once a year if you’re not in a monogamous relationship 

Q. How much exercise do you really need?

A. 45 minutes twice a week
B. 30 minutes three or four days a week
C. 60 minutes at least three or four days a week
D. 30 minutes at least four or five days a week --answer

Q. Noro virus can be prevented by the following except

A. Washing hands often
B. Isolating sick person
C. Drinking little amount of water  --answer
D. Maintaining strong immune system

Q. In Restricted Type anorexia nervosa, self-starvation is not associated with which of the following?

A. Concurrent purging  --answer
B. Socializing
C. Body dysmorphic issues
D. Eating only certain food types

Q. In Bulimia nervosa, the nonpurging sub-type, a behavior which is used to compensate for binging is

A. Exercise  --answer
B. Controlling intake of certain food types
C. Withdrawing from social interaction
D. Controlling carbohydrate intake

Q. Anorexia and bulimia are frequently comorbid with major depression, thus eating disorders have tended to be treated pharmacologically with which of the following?

A. Antipsychotics
B. Antibiotics
C. Antihistamine
D. Antidepressants --answer

Q. When should you have your first colonoscopy to screen for colon cancer?

A. At age 35
B. At age 40
C. At age 45
D. At age 50  --answer

Q. What is a healthy blood-pressure level?

A. 110/70  --answer
B. 125/85
C. 135/90
D. 140/95

Q. Which of the following characteristics has regularly been implicated in the etiology of eating disorders?

A. Perfectionism  --answer
B. Narcissism
C. Extraversion
D. Introversion 

Q. Noro virus is type of virus which affects the

A. Central nervous system
B. Gastro intestinal system  --answer
C. Cardio vascular system
D. Skin disease

Q. In Binge-Eating/Purging Type anorexia nervosa, self-starvation is associated with:

A. Not eating to help control weight gain
B. Not being bothered about weight gain
C. Regularly engaging in purging activities to help control weight gain --answer

Q. Which of the following is a common treatment for bulimia?

A. Family therapy
B. Cognitive Behaviour Therapy  --answer
C. Psychodynamic therapy
D. Humanistic therapy

Q. Which of the following is a prominent characteristic of individuals with eating disorders?

A. High self esteem
B. Low self esteem  --answer
C. High levels of responsibility
D. Narcissism 

Q. Individuals with bulimia have a perceived lack of control over their eating behavior, and often report which of the following?

A. High levels of self-disgust  --answer
B. Low self-esteem
C. High levels of depression


Q. Binge eating causes a person to binge eat how many more times a week?

A. 3 more times  --answer
B. 2 more times
C. 4 more times

Q. Cancer of the cervix in women can be detected by regular Pap smears

A. VAT test
B. Elisa test
C. Pap smears --answer

Q. In Bulimia Nervosa, the purging sub-type, vomiting is the most common form of purging. What percentage of sufferers present with this type of purging?

A. 50-60%
B. 80-90%  --answer
C. 15-25%
D. 50-80%

Q. Second line therapy is a minimum of how many drugs?

A. 1
B. 5
C. 3  --answer
D. 10

Q. When performing abdominal thrusts how many thrusts do you do?

A. 1 to 5 thrusts
B. 6 to 10 thrusts  --answer
C. 15 to 20 thrusts
D. 30 to 40 thrusts

