Q. If a fixed foam fire fighting system is not of the premix type , a sample of the foam liquid must be tested by

A. Coast Guard inspection officer
B. The safetyman aboard the unit
C. The designated person-in-charge of the unit
D. The manufacturer, or his authorized representative  --answer

Q. Below is a list of fire extinguisher types matched with surfaces on which they can be used? Which is the incorrect option

A. Class A – Cloth, paper and rubber
B. Class B – Plastics, polyethylene, Styrofoams  --answer
C. Class C – Wiring, fuse boxes, electrical equipment and computers
D. Class D – Combustible metals such as magnesium, potassium and sodium

Q. Carbon-di-oxide (CO2) release alarm is fitted outside the engine room

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. What do the words ‘spontaneously combustion’ mean

A. The substance is very difficult to set alight, even when it is very hot
B. When this substance burns it burns completely and does not leave any residue or ash
C. When the substance burns it becomes very hot
D. The substance can catch fire by itself without an external source of heat or ignition  --answer

Q. Quick closing valve can be operated from a remote location

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Which one of the listed requirements regarding abandon ship and fire drills do not correspond to present regulations

A. On all international voyages, except short voyage, muster of passengers shall take place within 24 hours after embarkation  --answer
B. On all short international voyages, muster of passengers shall take place as soon as possible
C. Each member of the crew shall participate in at least one abandon ship drill and one fire drill every month
D. A training manual shall be provided in each crew mess room and recreation room or in each crew cabin

Q. The best way to combat an engine room bilge fire is through the use of

A. Dry chemical extinguisher and solid stream water
B. Foam extinguisher and low-velocity water fog  --answer
C. Foam extinguisher and solid stream water
D. Foam and soda acid extinguishers

Q. Fire watch should be performed during and after all hot work activities

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. In accommodation the automatic sprinklers shall come into operation within the temperature range

A. 80 – 90
B. 68 – 79  --answer
C. 56 – 67
D. 48 – 55

Q. The lowest temperature at which the heat from the combustion of a burning vapor is capable of producing vapor to enable combustion but not sustaining is

A. Ignition point
B. Flashpoint
C. Fire point  --answer
D. None of the above

Q. What type of release is allowed for fixed gas fire extinguishing installation onboard

A. Any automatic release system
B. A manually operated release only
C. An automatic release system activated by fire alarms
D. An automatic release system activated by fire detectors  --answer

Q. In the case of Direct Reduced Iron (DR) cargo in the hold, contact with water may lead to vigorous re-oxidation accompanied by the evolution of heat and hydrogen which may give rise to the risk of explosion

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Instructions for ‘Preparation for welding or hot work in cargo tanks’ is laid down by the Norwegian Maritime Directorate. During ongoing inspection on work

A. At one level for at least two places in the tank
B. At three levels at one point close to the working area
C. At three levels for at least two places in the tank  --answer
D. At two levels for three places in the tank

Q. In a mixture of flammable vapor and air, if there is too much vapor and not enough air to support combustion, we say the mixture is

A. Too rich  --answer
B. Over concentrated
C. Too lean
D. Saturated

Q. To operate the fire extinguisher, the acronym PASS is often used to help us remember to

A. Pull the pin, aim at the base of the fire, squeeze the handle and sweep at the base of the fire  --answer
B. Pass by the fire, activate the fire alarm, select the proper extinguisher, shoot at the base of the fire
C. Pull the alarm, alert the response team, shut down the power sources, secure the area
D. Pass by the fire, activate the sprinkler system, seal fire area from oxygen, stop unauthorized entry

Q. The best form of protection against fire is ______

A. Cure
B. Hose reel
C. Prevention  --answer
D. Fire extinguisher


Q. Fire hoses shall have a length of at least 10m , but not more than ___ in machinery space

A. 15 m  --answer
B. 20 m
C. 25 m
D. None of above

Q. When is it required for portable carbon dioxide fire extinguishers to be recharged?

A. At least once each year
B. Each time the vessel dry docks
C. When the charged weight decreased by 50%
D. Whenever used for demo or to fight fire onboard ships  --answer

Q. Which of the following colors is used to indicated Foam fire extinguisher

A. Red and yellow band
B. Red and cream band  --answer
C. Red and blue band
D. Red and black band

Q. portable extinguisher fitted in accommodation should have ______ of liquid

A. 2.5kg
B. 3.5 kg
C. 4.5 kg  --answer
D. 5.5 kg

Q. During a fire, the means of communication

A. Messengers
B. Telephones
C. Walkie-Talkie
D. All of the above  --answer

Q. Who has the authority to pull the fire alarm after discovering a fire on the worksite

A. Only Master can activate the fire alarm
B. Anyone who has seen a fire can activate the fire alarm  --answer
C. Only the fire safety officer activates the fire alarm
D. Only the crew can activate the fire alarm


Q. What is the maintenance schedule for a sprinkler system onboard

A. Monthly
B. Quarterly
C. Weekly & yearly  --answer
D. Half yearly

Q. Portable fire extinguisher is designed to put out______ effectively?

A. Small fire  --answer
B. Explosion
C. Industrial fire
D. Large bush fire

Q. The fire signal on a ship must be a continuous blast of the whistle or electrical bell for not less than ____ seconds

A. 10  --answer
B. 15
C. 20
D. None of the above

Q. What is the minimum number of portable fire extinguishers that must be carried on ships of 100 GRT and above ?

A. 3
B. 5  --answer
C. 9
D. 7

Q. In tankers sufficient foam concentration shall be supplied to ensure at least _____ min of foam generation in tankers fitted with an inert gas installation

A. 10 minutes
B. 20 minutes  --answer
C. 30 minutes
D. 40 minutes

Q. Class A divisions formed by bulkheads and constructed with steel or other equipment material and suitably stiffened

A. True   --answer
B. False

Q. Flammability means

A. That burns below 37.5 deg C / 100 deg F  --answer
B. Any fuel that can burn
C. Both
D. None

Q. Which ship shall be provided with international shore connection for supply of water as extinguishing media

A. Tankers
B. All ships of 500 GRT and upward  --answer
C. Passenger ships carrying more than 36 passengers
D. Passenger ships of 100 GRT and upward

Q. If you are the first person to discover a fire, what should you do?

A. Leave the building immediately
B. Head to your locker and get your personal items
C. Pick up a fire extinguisher and tackle the fire
D. Activate the fire alarm  --answer

Q. Class B fire extinguishers are designed to be used on combustible metals

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. Fire of carbonaceous substances is known as

A. Class B Fire
B. Class A fire  --answer
C. Class C fire
D. Class D fire

Q. Fire blankets are used for

A. Smothering of fire  --answer
B. Cooling of fire
C. Inhibition of fire
D. Starvation of fire

Q. What fixed fire fighting medium do we normally use in the engine room, pump room and other spaces?

A. CO2 flooding system  --answer
B. Portable Foam Fire Extinguisher
C. Portable Co2 Fire Extinguisher
D. None Of These

Q. Structural fire protection refers to the passive measures taken to

A. Provide a vessel with a sprinkler system
B. Provide a vessel with fire fighting equipment
C. Limit the risk and spread of fire  --answer
D. Limit the size of the engine room

Q. What quantity of reserve fuel is to be available for diesel driven fire pumps outside the main machinery space

A. 20 liters
B. 40 liters
C. Sufficient amount for six hours operation at full capacity
D. Sufficient amount for fifteen hours operation at full capacity  --answer

Q. Oxygen powered resuscitator is driven by pressurized gas delivered by a regulator, and can be either automatic or manually controlled

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Fire is characterized by

A. Reduction
B. Oxidation
C. Heat  --answer
D. Corrosion

Q. You are carrying out a search in a smoke-filled compartment wearing BA. At what stage should you start to make your way out of the compartment?

A. Regularly check your pressure gauge and note how much air you used to reach your work area. Start to return when you have this amount left plus a reasonable reserve
B. Wait for the appropriate signal on your safety line as the personnel outside will be keeping a track of the time you have spent inside
C. 15 minutes after starting to used the set as this leaves you with five minutes air left
D. Wait until the BA set warning whistle sounds  --answer

Q. Watertight sliding steel doors used below the water line must be able to close in 45 seconds or less when the ship is in an upright condition

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. What is the requirement for escape route opening

A. Must be capable of opening from the direction for which escape is required  --answer
B. Must be capable of opening in both directions
C. Must be capable of opening from outside to inside
D. Must not be opened without permission

Q. Extinguish the fire by

A. Cooling the material
B. Starving the fire
C. Smothering the fire
D. All of the above  --answer

Q. Fire can be caused onboard a vessel by

A. A high DC power supply
B. Low batteries
C. A low AC power supply
D. Faulty electrical leads  --answer

Q. Fire detector principle of operations could be based on

A. Bimetallic strip
B. Fusible links
C. Quartzite bulb
D. All the above  --answer

Q. You should always check closed doors for heat before opening them

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Portable fire extinguishers are available only CO2 and foam

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. In case of fire on the electrical motor first thing to do is

A. Call the electrician
B. Extinguish fire by water spray
C. Sound alarm, stop the motor and extinguish using CO2  --answer
D. Extinguish using a foam extinguisher

Q. The Continuous burning of Fire is represented in fire tetrahedron by addition of

A. Chain supply
B. Chain reaction  --answer
C. Chain inhibition
D. Chain prevention

Q. For fighting fire on the deck of a tanker system used is _____

A. Low expansion foam  --answer
B. High expansion foam
C. DCP
D. CO2

Q. Class B fires are those fires that occur involving paper and wood

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. Designated exits must always be unlocked from both side

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. The lowest temperature at which the heat from the combustion of a burning vapor is capable of producing sufficient vapor to sustain the reaction and to enable combustion to continue is called

A. Fire Point  --answer
B. Self-ignition temperature
C. Flash Point
D. None of the above

Q. A concentration of only ____ % will induce rapid unconsciousness

A. 1%
B. 10%  --answer
C. 70%
D. 0.33%

Q. Designated fire exists will always be marked with a green EXIT sign and will be lit from within to insure visibility

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. A fire is said to be under control when

A. It stops spreading
B. No smoke is seen  --answer
C. When the temperature of side wall remains cool and steady
D. Flame is knocked off

Q. What is fuel's role in making a fire?

A. It is the combustible material that burns  --answer
B. It is the food that gives your body energy
C. It is one thing you don’t need to make fire

Q. Fire patrol should use their senses touch, smell and sight to identify fie

A. TRUE --answer
B. FALSE

Q. Violent flames and heavy black smoke is typical of which sort of fire

A. Woodfire
B. Paper fire
C. Fuel oil fire  --answer
D. Electrical fire

Q. The primary function of a fire door is to safe exit in case of fire

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Which of the following fire extinguishers would you use in order to extinguish an electrical fire?

A. Water Fire Extinguisher
B. Foam Fire Extinguisher
C. Wet Chemical Fire Extinguisher
D. Carbon Dioxide Fire Extinguisher  --answer

Q. While you are using a fire extinguisher containing to carbon dioxide; what happens to the nozzle?

A. It becomes extremely hot
B. It becomes warm
C. It becomes slightly cold
D. It becomes extremely cold  --answer

Q. Thermal value is the amount of heat released by a unit mass of fuel

A. True  --answer
B. False


Q. Fire class A type is

A. Metals
B. Liquids
C. Electrical equipment
D. None of above  --answer

Q. Radiation is the transfer of heat through the physical movement of particles from hotter to colder zone

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. What type of fire extinguisher should you use in order to extinguish a fire caused by solid materials, such as wood, paper or textile?

A. Carbon Dioxide
B. Water  --answer
C. Foam
D. Wet Chemical

Q. Emergency fire pump is located in the engine room

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. An exit route of three parts: the exit access, exit, and exit discharge

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Metal fire is classified as class C fire

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. A self contained breathing apparatus

A. Is used for deep sea diving
B. Contains oxygen
C. Is used for entry in enclosed spaces  --answer
D. Is connected to the deck air line

Q. The weight of a portable fire extinguisher is not more than

A. 9 kg
B. 23 kg  --answer
C. 13.5 kg
D. 5 Kg

Q. What type of fire extinguisher should be used to douse a fuel-based fire?

A. Carbon Dioxide
B. Water
C. Foam  --answer
D. Wet chemical

Q. Putting fire out by removing fuel is called inhibition

A. False  --answer
B. True

Q. Why should a CO2 extinguisher be used with caution in confined areas

A. It will displace the air and reduce the amount of oxygen available  --answer
B. It will increase the oxygen present in the confined area to a danger level
C. It will not operate effectively in confined areas
D. It may explode when exposed to heat

Q. Smothering is the method of fire fighting by limitation of

A. Molecular chain reaction
B. Temperature
C. Fuel
D. Air  --answer

Q. An “A” class fire is fuelled by

A. Wood, paper cloth, trash, plastics  --answer
B. Flammable liquids: gasoline, oil, grease, acetone
C. Electrical: energized electrical equipment

Q. Class C fire extinguishers are used to put out combustible metal and metal alloy fires

A. True
B. False  --answer

Q. Titanium and aluminum materials can be classified under which of the following categories?

A. Category A
B. Category C
C. Category D  --answer
D. Category B

Q. Which of the following colors allows you to identify a foam fire extinguisher?

A. Blue
B. Red
C. Yellow
D. Cream  --answer

Q. Flammable cargoes are those with a flash point _____

A. At or above 37.8 degrees Celsius
B. At or above 50 degree Celsius
C. At or below 37.8 degrees Celsius
D. At or above 60 degrees Celsius  

Q. What is Heats role in making a fire

A. It raises the material temperature so it will ignite  --answer
B. It lowers the material temperature to allow it to burn
C. It keeps the fire burning

Q. Class B fire involves liquids

A. True  --answer
B. False

Q. Extinguish the fire by removing fuel element from the fire is called?

A. Cooling the material
B. Starving the fire  --answer 
C. Smothering the fire
D. All of the above


Q. A water fire should be on fires started by which of the following materials?
A. Materials such as gasoline that are highly flammable
B. Materials made up of combustible metals
C. Fires caused by electricity
D. Materials such as paper, textiles, wood and other solid materials  --answer


Q._____ fire extinguishers are specifically designed in order to tackle a class F fire.

A. Carbon Dioxide
B. Wet Chemical  --answer
C. Foam
D. Water

Q. What is fuel’s role in making a fire?

A. It is the combustible material that burns  --answer
B. It is the food that gives your body energy
C. It is one thing you don’t need to make fire

Q. Which type of fire extinguisher do you use to fight an electrical fire if a carbon dioxide extinguisher is unavailable?

A. Water
B. Wet Chemical
C. Foam
D. Dry powder  --answer

Q. If there is a black coloured band above the fire extinguisher; what does the color of the band tell you?

A. That this extinguisher is a wet chemical fire extinguisher
B. That this extinguisher is a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher  --answer
C. That this extinguisher is broken and should not be used
D. That this extinguisher is broken and should not be used

Q. Which of the following colours can be found in a band above a wet chemical fire extinguisher?

A. Yellow  --answer
B. Cream
C. Blue
D. Red

Q. You should avoid using _____ fire extinguishers when extinguishing a fire in a confined space.

A. Dry Powder Fire Extinguishers  --answer
B. Water Fire Extinguishers
C. Foam Fire Extinguishers
D. Wet Chemical Fire Extinguishers

Q. Fires that are fueled by _____ require you to use water fire extinguishers in order to fight them

A. Live electricity
B. Gasoline, kerosene, and other flammable liquids
C. Solid materials; such as wood, paper, and textile  --answer
D. Propane, butane, and other flammable gasses

Q. A band of _____ is displayed above a fire extinguisher that contains carbon dioxide.

A. Yellow
B. Red
C. Black  --answer
D. Cream


Q. Which of the following types of fire extinguishers have a yellow band above it?

A. Foam
B. Water
C. Wet Chemical  --answer
D. Carbon Dioxide

Q. The area you must assemble in the event of the fire is called :

A. The Fire Safety Meeting Spot
B. There is no specific name
C. The Fire Assembly Point  --answer
D. The supervisor’s office

Q. Class A materials do not include which of the following?

A. Wood Materials
B. Propane Materials  --answer
C. Plastic Materials
D. Paper Materials

Q. Which of the following types of materials is responsible for fueling a Class A fire?

A. 1. Oils that you typically cook with
B. Flammable liquids
C. Electrical Equipment
D. Wood, plastic, paper, and other kinds of solid materials  --answer

Q. A dry powder fire extinguisher can be found with a _____ band above it.

A. Yellow
B. Blue  --answer
C. Black
D. Cream

Q. Where should you go if you hear the fire alarm going off?

A. To the supervisor’s office in order to inform him what is happening
B. To the fire assembly point  --answer
C. To the break room to make sure everyone got out
D. Home, the work day is over

Q. Fire extinguishers that contain _____ have a red band located above them

A. Carbon Dioxide
B. Water  --answer
C. Foam
D. Wet Chemicals

Q. A fire starts in a switchboard due to a short circuit. This is which class of fire as per NFPA?

A. A
B. B
C. C  --answer
D. D

Q. An oil fire is classified as class_____.

A. A
B. B  --answer
C. C
D. D

Q. Which of the following is correct when it comes to the type of fire extinguishers you should avoid while fighting a fire in a confined space?

A. Carbon Dioxide and Dry Powder Fire extinguishers should not be used  --answer
B. Carbon Dioxide and Water Fire Extinguishers should not be used
C. Water and Dry Powder Fire extinguishers should not be used
D. Only a Dry powder fire extinguisher should not be used

Q. When do you go to the fire assembly point?

A. When discussion about fire safety is taking place
B. When the fire alarm goes onn  --answer
C. If you are the first one to see the fire
D. When practicing using the different types of fire extinguishers


Q. Water fire extinguishers have a_____located above them?

A. Red coloured band
B. Blue coloured band
C. Black coloured band
D. Green Colored band  --answer

Q. The fire assembly point can be best described as:

A. Where the fire extinguishers are stored
B. An area that has a high risk for fires to occur
C. An area where you are required to assemble in the event of a fire  --answer
D. An area you are required to avoid in the event of a fire

Q. When you see a fire on the worksite, what is the first thing you should do

A. Sound the fire alarm  --answer
B. Tell you, master
C. Try and put the fire out
D. Grab your tools and quickly exit the area

Q. When fighting an electrical fire, which of the following should not be used?

A. Water Fire Extinguisher
B. Foam Fire Extinguisher
C. Dry Powder Fire Extinguisher
D. Neither A nor B should be used  --answer

Q. Wood, plastic, and paper are which of the following:

A. Class B Materials
B. Class C Materials
C. Class A Materials  --answer
D. Class F Materials

Q. Wood, plastic, paper and other solid materials are typically the culprits for_____.

A. A Class F fire
B. A Class B fire
C. A Class A fire  --answer
D. A Class C fire

Q. A hot permit allows you to:

A. Carry out work that can potentially cause a fire  --answer
B. To work on a worksite containing extreme temperatures
C. Gives you the authority to start a fire on the worksite
D. Allows you to practice fire drills on the worksite

Q. Why is it important that you tend the nozzle when you have finished using a fire extinguisher containing carbon dioxide?

A. Because the nozzle gets extremely hot making it impossible to use
B. This is not a requirement
C. Because the nozzle gets warm, making it impossible to use
D. Because the nozzle gets extremely cold, making it impossible to use.  --answer

Q. What class of fire was a wet chemical fire extinguisher specifically designed to fight?

A. Class A fires
B. Class D Fires
C. Class F Fires  --answer
D. Class B Fires

Q. Wet Chemical fire extinguishers were specifically designed in order to tackle ______

A. A class A fire
B. A class B Fire
C. A Class D Fire
D. A Class F Fire  --answer

Q. Which of the following materials can be classified under Category D?

A. Titanium
B. Aluminum
C. Propane
D. Both A & B  --answer

Q. You should use a Dry Powder fire extinguisher in order to fight in an electrical fire, only in the event of_____

A. A carbon dioxide fire extinguisher is unavailable  --answer
B. A foam fire extinguisher is unavailable
C. You should never use a dry powder fire extinguisher on an electrical fire
D. A water fire extinguisher is unavailable

Q. Which of the following is true about dry powder fire extinguishers?

A. You should avoid using them in confined spaces  --answer
B. They are the best choice for electrical fires
C. You should only use them in confined spaces
D. There is a black band above them

Q. After using a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher, the nozzle gets extremely cold. This is a sign that:

A. You should not use it
B. It is safe to continue  --answer
C. The Materials inside are running low
D. None of the above

Q. What type of permit is needed in order to carry out work that could potentially result in a fire breaking out on the work site?

A. A fire permit
B. A hot permit  --answer
C. A work permit
D. No permit is needed

Q. What type of fire extinguisher would you use on a fire that is categorised as a Class F Fire?

A. Carbon Dioxide Fire Extinguishers
B. Water Fire Extinguisher
C. Wet Chemical Fire Extinguisher  --answer
D. Dry Powder Fire Extinguisher

Q. Halon is not used as fire extinguishing medium nowadays because _____

A. It is not a good extinguishing agent
B. It affects human body
C. It reacts with metals
D. It is not environmentally friendly. --answer

Q. Which of the following classes of fire would probably occur in the engine room bilges?

A. Class A
B. Class B  --answer
C. Class C
D. Class D

Q. A fire in a pile of dunnage would be classified as class _____.

A. A  --answer
B. B
C. C
D. D

Q. A galley grease fire would be classified as which class of fire?

A. A
B. B  --answer
C. C
D. D

Q. You have just extinguished an oil fire on the floor plates of the engine room with a 15 pound (6.8 kg) CO2 extinguisher.Which of the dangers listed should be prepared for next?

A. Complete lack of oxygen in the engine room.
B. Chemical reaction of the CO2 and oil forming carbonic acid
C. Sudden stoppage of the main engine.
D. Rekindling of the fire. --answer

Q. Burning wood is considered to be which of the listed classes of fire?

A. Class A  --answer
B. Class B
C. Class C
D. Class D 

Q. As per NFPA, a class "C" fire would most likely occur in the _____.

A. Engine room bilges
B. Main switchboard  --answer
C. Paint locker
D. Rag bin

Q. A class "D" fire would involve the burning of _____.

A. Diesel oil
B. Magnesium  --answer
C. Dunnage
D. Electrical insulation

Q. Besides heat, fuel, and oxygen, which of the following is necessary for a fire to exist?

A. Chain reaction  --answer
B. Thermal action
C. Chemical occlusion
D. Pyrotechnical reaction

Q. Which of the listed fire extinguishers is recommended for use on an electrical switchboard fire?

A. CO2  --answer
B. ABC dry chemical
C. CO2 propelled foam

Q. As per NFPA, fire extinguishing agents used on Class C fires must be _____.

A. Able to absorb heat
B. Water based
C. Nonconducting  --answer
D. Nontoxic 

Q. Which of the listed classes of fires can best be extinguished with a water fog?

A. Class A and B  --answer
B. Class A and C
C. Class B and C
D. Class A, B, and C

Q. Following an engine room bilge fire which is believed to be extinguished after using a fixed CO2 fire extinguishing system, the investigating team should reenter the closed space_____.

A. No sooner than 15 minutes after the fire is believed extinguished
B. Via the lowest access door
C. Via the lowest access door and equipped with SCBAs no sooner than 30 minutes after the fire is believed extinguished
D. Via the highest access door and equipped with SCBAs, one hour after the fire is believed extinguished  --answer

Q. What is required in addition to the heat, fuel, and oxygen of the fire triangle to have a fire?

A. Electricity
B. Chain reaction  --answer
C. Pressure
D. Smoke 

Q. Why is carbon dioxide (CO2) better than dry chemical for fighting a class "C" fire under NFPA?

A. The dry chemical is a conductor.
B. The dry chemical leaves a residue.  --answer
C. CO2 will not dissipate in air.
D. It takes smaller amounts of CO2 to cover the same area. 

Q. "Dry Powder" fire extinguishers, which contain a mixture of graphite and sodium chloride as the extinguishing agent, are generally used to fight which type of fire?

A. Class B
B. Class C
C. Class D   --answer

Q. Fires occurring in combustible metals, such as sodium or magnesium, are classified as a_____.

A. Class A
B. Class B
C. Class C
D. Class D  --answer

Q. Which of the listed classes of fire would apply to a main switchboard fire, as per NFPA?

A. Class "A"
B. Class "B"
C. Class "C"  --answer
D. Class "D"

Q. A fire in a pile of canvas is classified as class

A. A  --answer
B. B
C. C
D. D

Q. Foam is effective in combating which of the listed classes of fire?

A. Class A
B. Class B
C. Classes A and B  --answer
D. Classes B and C

Q. The lowest temperature at which the vapors of a flammable liquid will ignite and cause self-sustained combustion in the presence of a spark or flame is the_____.

A. Auto ignition temperature
B. Vaporization temperature
C. Flash point
D. Fire point  --answer

Q. The longer an oil fire is permitted to burn, the_____.

A. Harder it is to extinguish  --answer
B. Easier it is to extinguish
C. Less chance there is of reignition
D. Easier it is to control

Q. As per NFPA, a fire in the radio transmitter would be of what class?

A. A
B. B
C. C  --answer
D. D

Q. An oil fire would be classified as a_____.

A. Class A
B. Class B  --answer
C. Class C
D. Class D

Q. A fire in a fuel oil settling tank is a __________ .

A. Class A fire
B. Class B fire  --answer
C. Class C fire
D. Class D fire

Q. The extinguishing agent most likely to allow reignition of a fire is_____.

A. Carbon dioxide  --answer
B. Foam
C. Water fog
D. Water stream

Q. What, when removed, will result in the extinguishment of a fire?

A. Nitrogen
B. Sodium
C. Oxygen  --answer
D. Carbon dioxide

Q. If ignited, which material would be a class B fire?

A. Magnesium
B. Paper
C. Wood
D. Diesel Oil  --answer

Q. A fire in a pile of linen is a class_____.

A. A  --answer
B. B
C. C
D. D

Q. Which type of portable fire extinguisher is best suited for putting out a Class D fire?

A. Dry chemical
B. CO2
C. Foam
D. Dry powder  --answer

Q. What is the most important characteristic of the extinguishing agent in fighting a class "C" fire under NFPA?

A. Weight
B. Temperature
C. Electrical nonconductivity  --answer
D. Cost 

Q. All of the following are part of the fire triangle EXCEPT _____.

A. Electricity  --answer
B. Fuel
C. Oxygen
D. Heat 

Q. Which of the following conditions is true concerning flammable liquid vapors with a concentration above the upper explosive limit?

A. The mixture is too lean to burn.
B. The mixture is too rich to burn.  --answer
C. The vapor is about to explode.
D. Conditions are perfect for combustion.

Q. A fire discovered in an operating laundry room dryer is considered to be which of the listed classes of fire, as per NFPA?

A. Class A
B. Class B
C. Class C  --answer
D. Class D

Q. When choosing extinguishers to fight a Class "B" fire do NOT use _____.

A. Carbon dioxide
B. Dry chemical
C. Foam (stored-pressure type)
D. Water (cartridge-operated)   --answer

Q. Fires in combustible metals, such as sodium or magnesium, are classified as class_____.

A. A
B. B
C. C
D. D  --answer

Q. Which of the following substances is to be considered as fuel for a class "B" fire?

A. Wood
B. Rags
C. Electrical insulation
D. Fuel oil  --answer

Q. An aluminum powder fire is classified as class

A. A
B. B
C. C
D. D  --answer

Q. What shall be conducted during a fire and boat drill?

A. All watertight doors in the vicinity of the drill shall be operated.  --answer
B. All lifeboat equipment shall be examined.
C. Fire pumps shall be started and all exterior outlets opened. 

Q. Carbon dioxide as a fire fighting agent has which advantage over other agents?

A. It causes minimal damage.  --answer
B. It is safer for personnel.
C. It is cheaper.
D. It is most effective on a per unit basis. 

Q. Fire dampers prevent the spread of fire by

A. Convection  --answer
B. Conduction
C. Radiation
D. Direct contact

Q. Which of the following fire extinguishing agents has the greatest capacity for heat absorption?

A. Water fog  --answer
B. Dry chemical
C. Chemical foam
D. Carbon dioxide 

Q. It is necessary to secure the forced ventilation to a compartment where there is a fire to_____..

A. Allow the exhaust fans to remove smoke
B. Extinguish the fire by carbon monoxide smothering
C. Prevent additional oxygen from reaching the fire  --answer
D. Protect fire fighting personnel from smoke 

Q. Fires resulting from escaping liquefied flammable gases are generally extinguished by_____.

A. Cooling below the ignition point
B. Cutting off the oxygen supply
C. Stopping the flow of gas  --answer
D. Interrupting the chemical chain reaction 

Q. Which firefighting method is an example of an indirect attack on a fire?

A. Bouncing a straight stream of water off the overhead to create spray effect
B. Spraying foam on a bulkhead and letting it flow down and over pool of burning oil
C. Flooding a paint locker with CO2 and sealing the compartment  --answer
D. Cooling adjacent bulkheads with water to prevent the spread of the fire by conduction

Q. Which fire-fighting agent is most effective at removing heat?

A. Water spray  --answer
B. Foam
C. Carbon dioxide
D. Dry chemical 

Q. The main advantage of a steady stream of water on a class "A" fire is that it_____.

A. Breaks up and cools the fire  --answer
B. Protects the firefighting crew
C. Removes the oxygen
D. Washes the fire away 

Q. Mechanical foam used for firefighting is produced by mechanically mixing and agitating _____.

A. Soda acid and water
B. Dry chemical and water
C. Foam chemical with air and water  --answer
D. Bicarbonate soda with air and water

Q. Radiation can cause a fire to spread by _____.

A. Transmitting the heat of a fire through the ship's metal
B. Burning liquids flowing into another space
C. Heated gasses flowing through ventilation systems
D. The transfer of heat across an unobstructed space  --answer

Q. The spreading of fire as a result of heat being carried through a vessel's ventilation system, is an example of heat transfer by _____.

A. Conduction
B. Convection  --answer
C. Radiation
D. Windage 

Q. To prevent the spread of fire by convection you should

A. Remove combustibles from direct exposure
B. Cool the bulkhead around the fire
C. Close all openings to the area  --answer
D. Shut off electrical power

Q. You notice smoke coming from an open laundry room doorway. After activating the fire alarm, which of the following would you do FIRST?

A. Attempt to determine what is burning.  --answer
B. Acquire the nearest self contained breathing apparatus.
C. Break out the nearest fire hose.
D. Wait for the fire team to arrive and assist as directed.

Q. You have carbon tetrachloride as part of the cargo. If a fire breaks out in the general area, what is the major danger from the carbon tetrachloride?

A. It will explode if exposed to a flame.
B. Phosgene gas may be formed if it comes in contact with hot metal.  -answer
C. It will burn rapidly once ignited.
D. You cannot use water to fight the fire because it will react with the carbon tetrachloride. 

Q. You should be most concerned about a possible explosion or fire in fuel tanks _____.

A. During fueling when the fuel first strikes the tank bottom  --answer
B. During fueling when the fuel strikes fuel already in the tank
C. When underway as the fuel is moved by wave action
D. Shortly after fueling when fuel vapors gather


Q. To prevent the spread of fire by conduction, you should

A. Cool the bulkheads around the fire  --answer
B. Remove combustibles from direct exposure
C. Close all openings to the area
D. Shut off all electric power 

Q. You are on watch at night in port and discover a fire in #1 hatch. Which action should you take FIRST?

A. Advise the Chief Mate and Master.
B. Release carbon dioxide into the hatch.
C. Sound the general alarm.  --answer
D. Lead a fire hose to the hatch. 

Q. If you hear a continuous blast of the whistle for a period of not less than 10 seconds; supplemented by a continuous ringing of the general alarm bells for the same time period, you should _____.

A. Go to your lifeboat station
B. Go to your fire station  --answer
C. Standby for collision
D. Proceed to your man overboard muster station 

Q. he most likely location for a liquid cargo fire to occur on a tanker would be _____ .

A. In the midships house
B. At the main deck manifold
C. At the vent header
D. In the pump room  --answer

Q. If a powdered aluminum fire is being fought, the correct extinguishing agent would be _____.

A. Dry powder  --answer
B. Water fog
C. CO2
D. Steam 

Q. Which toxic gas is a product of incomplete combustion, and is often present when a fire burns in a closed compartment?

A. Carbon dioxide
B. Hydrogen sulfide
C. Carbon monoxide  --answer
D. Nitric oxide

Q. If there has been a fire in a closed unventilated compartment it may be unsafe to enter because of_____.

A. Unburned carbon particles
B. Excess nitrogen
C. A lack of oxygen  --answer
D. Excess hydrogen

Q. A Magnesium fire is classified as class _____.

A. A
B. B
C. C
D. D  --answer

Q. There are two disadvantages to CO2 when used as a total

A. The lack of cooling effect on heated materials  --answer
B. It cannot be used in a dead ship situation without electrical power available to the CO2 pump
C. It breaks down under extreme heat to form poisonous gasses
D. There is no effect on a class "A" fire even in an enclosed space

Q. A fire must be ventilated _____.

A. When using an indirect attack on the fire such as flooding with water
B. To prevent the gasses of combustion from surrounding the firefighters  --answer
C. To minimize heat buildup in adjacent compartments
D. If compressed gas cylinders are stowed in the compartment on fire

Q. In the event of a fire, the doors to a stair tower must be closed to prevent the spread of fire by_____.

A. Convection  --answer
B. Conduction
C. Radiation
D. Ventilation

Q. You are fighting a fire in a watertight compartment using hoses and river water. Stability may be reduced because of _____.

A. Progressive downflooding
B. Reduction of water in the storage tanks
C. Increase in free surface which reduces the metacentric height  --answer
D. Reduction of KG to the minimum allowable

Q. A fire starts on your vessel while refueling. You should FIRST_____.

A. Stop the ventilation
B. Sound the general alarm  --answer
C. Determine the source of the fire
D. Attempt to extinguish the fire

Q. Which extinguishing agent is recommended in the Chemical Data Guide for use on a carbon disulfide fire?

A. Alcohol foam
B. Dry chemical  --answer
C. Chemical foam
D. Water fog


Q. The three positions of an all-purpose fire nozzle are

A. Forward: off, center: fog, back: solid stream  --answer
B. Forward: solid stream, center: fog, back: off
C. Forward: fog, center: solid stream, back: off
D. Forward: off, center: solid stream, back: fog


Q. Oily rags stored in a pile that is open to the atmosphere are a hazard because they may

A. Deteriorate and give off noxious gasses
B. Spontaneously heat and catch fire  --answer
C. Attract lice and other vermin and serve as a breeding ground


Q. Before attempting to put out a class "C" fire involving an electric-driven centrifugal pump, you should FIRST

A. Unsulate your shoes
B. Ground the fire hose
C. Secure its power supply  --answer
D. Start the fire pump


Q. Which of the listed fire fighting agents produces a buoyant blanket to separate the burning vapors from air?

A. CO2
B. Low-expansion foam  --answer
C. Water fog
D. Steam 

Q. You are fighting a fire in the electrical switchboard in the engine room. You should secure the power, then

A. Use a portable foam extinguisher
B. Use a low-velocity fog adapter with the fire hose
C. Use a portable CO2 extinguisher  --answer
D. Determine the cause of the fire

Q. A class B fire is most successfully fought by

A. Preventing oxygen from reaching the burning material  --answer
B. Cooling the burning material below its ignition temperature
C. Using the extinguishing agent to make the burning material fire-resistant
D. Using the extinguishing agent to absorb the heat

Q. To extinguish an electrical fire, you should use_____.

A. Mechanical foam
B. Chemical foam
C. Carbon dioxide  --answer
D. Soda acid

Q. Dry chemical extinguishers extinguish class B fires to the greatest extent by_____.

A. Cooling
B. Smothering
C. Oxygen dilution
D. Breaking the chain reaction  --answer

Q. Which of the firefighting agents listed is the least hazardous to personnel?

A. CO2
B. Steam
C. Water  --answer
D. Carbon tetrachloride

Q. What should be your FIRST action if you discover a fire aboard ship?

A. Sound the alarm.  --answer
B. Attempt to put out the fire.
C. Confine it by closing doors, ports, vents, etc.
D. Call the Master.


Q. Foam tends to extinguish a fire by_____.

A. Chemically absorbing the oxygen
B. Smothering the burning material  --answer
C. Chemically absorbing the burning material
D. Releasing large amounts of carbon dioxide

Q. Which extinguishing agent is most likely to allow reflash as a result of not cooling the fuel below its ignition temperature?

A. Foam
B. CO2  --answer
C. Water stream
D. Water fog

Q. Which of the following would be considered a Class "B" fire?

A. Electrical fire in a motor
B. Waste rag fire in the engine room
C. Oil fire in the engine room bilges  --answer
D. Fire in the main switchboard

Q. Dry chemical extinguishers may be used on what class of fires?

A. A only
B. B only
C. B and C only
D. A, B or C as marked on the extinguisher  --answer

Q. The important tool for fire prevention is_____

A. Cleaning and good house keeping  --answer
B. Bilge pump strainer cleaning
C. To know red, blue and green book

Q. Foam extinguishes a fire by _____.

A. Smothering the burning material  --answer
B. Chemical combination with burning material
C. Absorbing the burning material
D. Organic destruction of the burning material

Q. What is the major fire hazard found in accommodation_____.

A. Electrical appliances  --answer
B. Oily rag
C. Paint drum
D. Electric motor

Q. An advantage of a dry chemical over a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher is its_____.

A. Greater range  --answer
B. Cooling ability
C. Cleanliness

Q. The fire protection provided for the propulsion motor and generator of a diesel electric drive vessel is usually a

A. Fixed foam extinguisher
B. Fixed CO2 system  --answer
C. Steam smothering system
D. Pressurized water sprinkler system

Q. Immediately after a class "B" fire has been extinguished by the use of foam, crewmen should _____.

A. Carefully apply a low velocity fog over the foam blanket
B. Wade through the foam blanket to evenly distribute the foam
C. Be careful not to disturb the foam blanket  --answer
D. Sweep the foam blanket overboard and secure firefighting equipment

Q. As per NFPA, fires which occur in energized electrical equipment, such as switchboard insulation, are class

A. A
B. B
C. C  --answer
D. D

Q. Which type of fire is the foam (stored-pressure type) fire extinguisher effective on?

A. Classes A & B  --answer
B. Classes A & C
C. Classes B & C

Q. What is the primary hazard, other than fire damage, associated with a class C fire under NFPA?

A. Possibility of reflash
B. Electrocution or shock  --answer
C. Explosion
D. Flashover

Q. The advantage of using a dry chemical fire extinguishing agent is _____.

A. Its good stability and non-toxicity --answer
B. Permanent extinguishment regardless of the reignition sources
C. Its excellent cooling ability

Q. A foam-type portable fire extinguisher would be most useful in combating a fire in _____.

A. Solid materials such as wood or bales of fiber
B. Flammable liquids  --answer
C. A piece of electrical equipment
D. Combustible metallic solids

Q. Oil fires are best extinguished by _____.

A. Cutting off the supply of oxygen  --answer
B. Removing the fuel
C. Cooling below the ignition temperature
D. Spraying with water


Q. A fire is discovered in the forepeak of a vessel at sea.The wind is from ahead at 35 knots. You should

A. Remain on course and hold speed
B. Change course and put the stern to the wind  --answer
C. Change course to put the wind on either beam and increase speed
D. Remain on course but slack the speed

Q. The high velocity fog tip used with the all-purpose firefighting nozzle should always be _____.

A. Stowed separately in a clip or rack at each fire station
B. Attached to the all- purpose nozzle by a chain  --answer
C. Coated with heavy grease to prevent corrosion
D. Painted red to be identified as emergency equipment

Q. Which statement about firefighting foam is TRUE?

A. Foam conducts electricity.  --answer
B. To be most effective, foam should be directed at the base of the fire.
C. Foam is most effective on burning liquids which are flowing.
D. Foam can ONLY be used to extinguish class A fires.

Q. The outlet at a fire hydrant may be positioned anywhere from horizontal to pointing _____.

A. 45° upward
B. Vertically upward
C. Vertically downward   --answer

Q. Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF), commonly known as 'light water', is especially suitable for fighting _____.

A. Oil fires in the engine room bilges  --answer
B. Class C fires in paint lockers
C. Any class D fire

Q. The most common and widely used cooling agent used for fighting fires on merchant vessels is _____.

A. Carbon dioxide
B. Flue gas
C. Water  --answer
D. Steam smothering

Q. Aqueous film forming firefighting foam is also known as

A. Chemical foam  --answer
B. High-expansion foam
C. Mechanical foam

Q. A carbon dioxide fire extinguisher is required to be recharged if the weight loss exceeds what percentage of the weight of the charge? (small passenger vessel regulations)

A. One percent
B. Five percent
C. Seven percent
D. Ten percent  --answer

Q. Which of the following is NOT identified on the vessel's fire control plan?

A. Fire main system
B. Muster lists  --answer
C. Secondary means of escape
D. Bilge pumps

Q. A specific document which identifies a chemical, and lists its physical properties, health hazards, required controls, firefighting procedures, clean up methods, waste disposal, and the safe handling and storage requirements, is commonly called a _____.

A. Hazardous Chemical Information Sheet
B. Physical/Chemical Characteristics Document
C. Material Safety Data Sheet  --answer
D. Hazardous Chemical Loading Document

Q. Which of the following is NOT identified on the vessel's fire control plan?

A. Gas detector
B. Fire control plan
C. Fire and emergency signals  --answer
D. Dry chemical monitor

Q. Which of the following is NOT required to be part of a vessel's Fire Control Plan?

A. Ventilation fan location
B. Ventilation fan capacity  --answer
C. Ventilation fan control
D. Ventilation dampers

Q. The primary function(s) of an automatic sprinkler system is(are) to _____.

A. Extinguish the fire which triggers it
B. Limit the spread of fire and control the amount of heat produced  --answer
C. Protect people in the areas which have sprinkler heads
D. Alert the crew to the fire

Q. The low velocity fog applicator used in conjunction with the all-purpose firefighting nozzle, should always be

A. Stored in the rack when not in actual use  --answer
B. Attached to the nozzle by the chain
C. Coated with heavy grease to prevent corrosion
D. Left in place in the all- purpose nozzle

Q. If a portable carbon dioxide fire extinguisher has been partially discharged, it should be immediately _____.

A. Tagged and restowed properly in its rack
B. Weighed and the charge loss recorded before being returned to its rack
C. Given to the chief engineer for recharging
D. Tagged 'empty' and stowed separately from charged extinguishers  --answer

Q. Which of the following is not required to be included on Fire Control Plans?

A. Smoke detectors
B. Communication plan  --answer
C. Secondary means of escape
D. All watertight doors

Q. How do you operate a portable CO2 fire extinguisher?

A. Point the horn down
B. Turn cylinder upside-down.
C. Break the rupture disc.
D. Pull pin, squeeze grip.  --answer

Q. Fire hoses located at protected fire stations, must always be

A. Connected to the fire hydrant  --answer
B. Capped on the ends for protection
C. Supplied with a smooth bore nozzle
D. Open to the air to prevent rot

Q. Annual servicing of a hand portable CO2 fire extinguisher includes _____.

A. Inspecting the pressure gauge to ensure the needle is within operating range
B. Weighing the cylinder and recharging if weight loss exceeds 10% of the weight of the charge  --answer
C. Hydrostatic testing of the cylinder
D. Discharging, cleaning inside, and recharging

Q. As per NFPA, a fire in a transformer terminal would be classified as class _____.

A. A
B. B
C. C  --answer
D. D

Q. The state of charge of a stored pressure type dry chemical fire extinguisher can be readily determined by _____.

A. Visual inspection of the pressure gauge
B. Weighing the cylinder
C. Removing the lid and checking the level of dry chemical  --answer
D. Weighing the CO2 cartridge

Q. CO2 cylinders forming part of a fixed fire extinguishing system must be pressure tested at least every _____.

A. Year
B. 2 years
C. 6 years
D. 12 years  --answer

Q. At each initial and subsequent inspection for certification, all carbon dioxide fire extinguishers aboard a vessel are _____.(small passenger vessel regulations)

A. Checked for pressure loss
B. Discharged and recharged
C. Sent ashore to an approved service facility
D. Weighed  --answer

Q. When is it required for carbon dioxide fire extinguishers to be recharged?

A. At least once each year.
B. Each time the vessel dry- docks.
C. When the charged weight decreases by 10%  --answer
D. When the trigger seal has been broken.

Q. Which of the listed fire extinguishers cannot be easily recharged aboard ship?

A. Soda acid
B. Carbon dioxide  --answer
C. Dry chemical, cartridge- operated
D. Foam

Q. Each fire pump on a tankship must have a pressure gauge located at _____.

A. The pump discharge  --answer
B. The manifold connection
C. Each fire station discharge
D. The pump station


Q. Fire hoses should always be stowed at the fire main in a manner which will allow _____.

A. All sections to be quickly connected
B. The nozzle end to be run out to the fire  --answer
C. All sections to be quickly drained
D. The nozzle and fittings to be easily and quickly inspected


Q. Proper maintenance of a dry chemical fire extinguisher will include _____.

A. Adding water to the powder
B. Painting the CO2 cartridge red
C. Puncturing the CO2 cartridge
D. Shaking the extinguisher to loosen the caked-up portions of the powder  --answer

Q. When water fog is used as an extinguishing agent, the fire is extinguished principally by the _____.

A. Isolation of the fuel
B. Absorption of heat  --answer
C. Displacement of gases of combustion
D. Extinguishment of incipient smoldering

Q. Recharging a previously used cartridge-operated dry chemical fire extinguisher is accomplished by _____ .

A. Authorized fire equipment servicing personnel only
B. Replacing the propellant cartridge and refilling it with powder  --answer
C. Puncturing the cartridge seal after installation
D. Recharging the cartridge and refilling it with powder

Q. Fire hose couplings _____.

A. Are made of bronze, brass, or soft alloy metals  --answer
B. Should be painted red in order to identify hose lengths
C. Are specially hardened to prevent crushing
D. Should be greased frequently


Q. When is it required for a dry chemical fire extinguisher to be recharged?

A. After each use  --answer
B. When the air temperature exceeds 90°F
C. Every six months
D. Every 12 months


Q. When pilot cylinder pressure is used to initialize the release of CO2 from a fixed fire extinguishing system containing four storage cylinders, what would be the minimum number of pilot cylinders required in this installation?

A. 1
B. 2  --answer
C. 3
D. 4

Q. A fire hose should be stowed in its rack with the

A. Hose sections disconnected
B. Foam nozzle attached
C. All-purpose nozzle attached  --answer
D. Hose sections rolled separately

Q. Each hand portable fire extinguisher must be marked with _____.

A. The name of the vessel on which it is located
B. The date that it was installed
C. The names of the individuals qualified to use it
D. An identification number  --answer

Q. Multiple fire pumps may be used for other purposes provided that one pump is _____.

A. On line to the fire main
B. Kept available for use on the fire main at all times  --answer
C. Capable of being connected to the fire main
D. Rated at or above 125 psi

Q. In order to discharge a CO2 portable fire extinguisher, the operator must FIRST _____.

A. Open the discharge valve
B. Remove the locking pin  --answer
C. Invert the CO2 extinguisher
D. Squeeze the two trigger handles together

Q. Fire hydrant valves on a crude oil tanker shall be isolated from the crude oil washing system by _____ .

A. Spade blanks  --answer
B. Face blanks
C. Non-return valves
D. Automatic closing valves

Q. As a general rule of thumb, with no adverse wind conditions, approximately how far could a straight stream of water reach from a fire hose having a nozzle pressure of 100 psi?

A. 50 feet
B. 100 feet  --answer
C. 150 feet
D. 200 feet

Q. Which of the listed devices is required to be located on the discharge side of the pump in a fire main system?

A. Pressure gauge  --answer
B. Strainer
C. Reduction valve
D. International shore connection

Q. The high-velocity fog tip used with the all-purpose fire fighting nozzle should always be_____.

A. Attached by a chain  --answer
B. Coated with heavy grease to prevent corrosion
C. Painted red for identity as emergency equipment
D. Stored in the clip at each fire station

Q. If you find that the pressure cartridge on a dry chemical fire extinguisher has been punctured, you must _____.

A. Replace the pressure cartridge and weigh the chemical charge  --answer
B. Replace the entire charge of chemical agent
C. Have the unit hydrostatically tested
D. Weigh the pressure cartridge to determine if it must be replaced

Q. If your vessel is to carry ten portable foam fire extinguishers, you must maintain a supply of at least _____.

A. One spare extinguisher
B. One spare charge
C. Five spare charges  --answer
D. Ten spare charges

Q. Under normal firefighting conditions, approximately how far could a straight stream of water reach when the hose pressure is 100 PSI?

A. 50 feet
B. 100 feet  --answer
C. 150 feet
D. 200 feet

Q. "Portable" oil tank cleaning machines are usually provided with a water supply from the _____.

A. Inert gas scrubber
B. Firemain  --answer
C. Mucking supply system
D. Potable water supply

Q. Each fireman's outfit and its spare equipment on a tankship must be stowed in a(n) _____.

A. Locked cabinet in the machinery space
B. Unlocked cabinet in the machinery space
C. Separate and accessible location  --answer
D. Location near a fire hydrant

Q. A squeeze-grip type carbon dioxide portable fire extinguisher has been partially discharged. It should be _____.

A. Labeled empty and recharged as soon as possible  --answer
B. Replaced in its proper location if weight loss is no more than 25%
C. Replaced in its proper location regardless of weight
D. Replaced in its proper location if weight loss is no more than 15%


Q. A carbon dioxide fire extinguisher should be inspected _____

A. At least every 5 years;
B. At least annually;
C. Whenever it is below 10% of the required weight;
D. Within 15 months of the previous inspection  --answer

Q. A carbon dioxide fire extinguisher should be recharged _____.

A. At least annually;
B. Whenever it is below 10% of the required weight;  --answer
C. Has not been used for 5 years;
D. Before every safety inspection.

Q. The powder in a dry chemical fire extinguisher_____.

A. Is always ready for use and requires no attention
B. May cake up and fail to discharge properly if not occasionally agitated  --answer
C. Deteriorates to an unusable condition within three years
D. Puts out the fire with its cooling action

Q. What is the most vulnerable part of the fire main system?

A. The fire pump
B. Exposed hard piping
C. The hydrant valve
D. The fire hose  --answer

Q. All portable fire extinguishers must be capable of being _____.

A. Carried by hand to a fire  --answer
B. Carried or rolled to a fire
C. Recharged in the field
D. Used on class "B" fires


Q. Fire hose should always be stowed at the fire station in the hose rack _____.

A. After the hose has been completely drained  --answer
B. With the nozzle in the solid stream position
C. So the hose can be connected quickly if a fire occurs
D. So the nozzle is protected by the hose


Q. What is the MOST important consideration when determining how to fight an electrical fire?

A. Whether the fire is in machinery or passenger spaces
B. Danger of shock to personnel  --answer
C. The amount of toxic fumes created by the extinguisher
D. Maintaining electrical power

Q. Which of the listed materials would be considered as a burning class "C" fire under NFPA?

A. Fuel oil
B. Wood
C. Celluloid
D. Electrical insulation  --answer

Q. A class "D" fire would be considered as burning

A. Wood
B. Oil
C. Electrical equipment
D. Magnesium  --answer

Q. The three basic elements necessary for any fire are

A. Heat, gas, and flames
B. Fuel, heat, and oxygen  --answer
C. Heat, nitrogen, and fuel
D. Fuel oil, nitrogen, and oxygen

Q. As per NFPA, a fire in an electrical generator is considered to be

A. Class "A"
B. Class "B"
C. Class "C"  --answer
D. Class "D"

Q. A definite advantage of using water as a fire extinguishing agent is its characteristic of

A. Alternate expansion and contraction as water in a liquid state becomes a vapor
B. Absorption of smoke and gases as water is converted from a liquid to a vapor
C. Rapid contraction as water is converted from a liquid to a vapor
D. Rapid expansion as water absorbs heat and changes to steam  --answer

Q. What danger to personnel exists when a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher is discharged in a small enclosed space?

A. Second degree burns
B. Electric shock
C. Suffocation  --answer
D. Burst eardrums


Q. Convection spreads a fire by _____.

A. Transmitting the heat of a fire through the ship's metal
B. Burning liquids flowing into another space
C. Heated gases flowing through ventilation systems  --answer
D. The transfer of heat across an unobstructed space


Q. When used to fight fire, carbon dioxide _____.

A. Is effective if used promptly on an oil fire  --answer
B. Has a greater cooling effect than water
C. Is lighter than air
D. Is harmless to cargo and crew

Q. Ventilation systems connected to a compartment in which a fire is burning are normally closed to prevent the rapid spread of the fire by_____.

A. Convection  --answer
B. Conduction
C. Radiation
D. Spontaneous combustion


Q. The fire main system should be flushed with fresh water whenever possible to _____.

A. Help destroy marine growth  --answer
B. Identify loose pipe joints
C. Prevent corrosion of valve stems
D. Eliminate cracking of fire hose linings

Q. Which type of portable fire extinguishers is NOT designed for use on flammable liquid fires?

A. Foam (stored-pressure)
B. Water (cartridge-operated)  --answer
C. Dry chemical
D. Carbon dioxide

Q. A fire involving aluminum powder would be a class

A. "A" fire
B. "B" fire
C. "C" fire
D. "D" fire  --answer

Q. As per NFPA, a class "C" fire would occur in _____.

A. Bedding
B. Pipe insulation
C. Paint
D. A generator  --answer

Q. A fire of escaping liquefied flammable gas is best extinguished by _____.

A. Cooling the gas below the ignition point
B. Cutting off the supply of oxygen
C. Stopping the flow of gas  --answer
D. Interrupting the chain reaction

Q. The extinguishing agent most effective for combating wood fires is _____.

A. Water  --answer
B. Carbon dioxide
C. Foam
D. Dry chemical

Q. What is NOT a characteristic of carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing agents?

A. Effective even if ventilation is not shut down  --answer
B. Will not deteriorate in storage
C. Non-corrosive
D. Effective on electrical equipment

Q. Which fire detection system is actuated by sensing a heat rise in a compartment?

A. Manual fire detection system
B. Automatic fire detection system  --answer
C. Smoke detection system
D. Watchman's supervisory system


Q. Any extinguishing agent used on a Class "C" fire must have which important property?

A. Cooling ability
B. Leaves no residue
C. Penetrating power
D. Nonconductivity  --answer

Q. What are the most important reasons for using water fog to fight fires?

A. Smothers burning surfaces, organically destroys fuel
B. Cools fire and adjacent surfaces, provides protective barrier  --answer
C. Reaches areas not protected by steam or CO2 smothering systems
D. Allows fire to be attacked from leeward, saturates liquid surfaces

Q. Which of the listed fire fighting agents and associated applications provide the largest shielding effect for the firefighter?

A. Straight stream of water
B. Light water and foam mixture
C. Low velocity water fog  --answer
D. Carbon dioxide interface

Q. Fires involving combustible metals are classified as

A. Class "A" fires
B. Class "B" fires
C. Class "C" fires
D. Class "D" fires  --answer

Q. The four basic components of a fire are fuel, heat, oxygen and a chain reaction. Which of the following statements best describes what must be eliminated to extinguish a fire?

A. Any one component can be eliminated to extinguish a fire.  --answer
B. Any two components must be eliminated to properly extinguish a fire.
C. Any three components must be eliminated to properly extinguish a fire.
D. All four components must be eliminated to extinguish any fire.

Q. A fire in trash and paper waste is classified as class

A. A  --answer
B. B
C. C
D. D

Q. Except in rare cases, it is impossible to extinguish a shipboard fire by _____.

A. Removing the fuel  --answer
B. Interrupting the chain reaction
C. Removing the oxygen
D. Removing the heat


Q. High-velocity fog_____.

A. Is a finer, more diffuse water spray than low-velocity fog
B. Requires that the water pressure be no greater than 60 psi
C. Produces an effective fog pattern no more than 6 feet beyond the nozzle
D. Extinguishes a fire by absorbing heat and reducing the supply of oxygen  --answer

Q. The four basic components of a fire are chain reaction, heat, fuel, and _____.

A. Carbon monoxide
B. Oxygen  --answer
C. Carbon dioxide
D. Any gaseous substance

Q. When combating a class C fire, which of the following dangers may be present?

A. Flooding of the vessel
B. Increased surface area of the burning fluid
C. Water damage to machinery not involved in the fire
D. Toxic fumes from burning insulation or electric shock  --answer

Q. A fire has broken out on the stern of your vessel. You should maneuver your vessel so the wind

A. Blows the fire back toward the vessel
B. Comes over the bow  --answer
C. Comes over the stern
D. Comes over either beam

Q. Which of the listed firefighting systems is best suited for fighting a fire in an oil rig ballast control room?

A. Automatic sprinkler system
B. Steam smothering system
C. Dry chemical system
D. Carbon dioxide system  --answer

Q. How does foam extinguish an oil fire?

A. By cooling the oil below the ignition temperature
B. By removing the fuel source from the fire
C. By excluding the oxygen from the fire  --answer
D. By increasing the weight of the oil

Q. Fire alarm system thermostats are actuated by

A. Smoke sensors
B. The difference in thermal expansion of two dissimilar metals  --answer
C. Pressure loss due to air being heated
D. An electric eye which actuates when smoke interferes with the beam

Q. On every vessel, distress signals must be stowed

A. On or near the navigating bridge  --answer
B. On the flying bridge not closer than 15 feet to any bulkhead
C. Above the freeboard deck away from heat
D. In an enclosed space below the freeboard deck away from heat

Q. In what location MUST a duplicate fire control plan be located?

A. Gangway  --answer
B. Engine Room
C. Crew Mess
D. Chief Mate's Office

Q. The control panel of a fire detection system must have all of the following EXCEPT_____.

A. A power-available light
B. An audible alarm to notify the crew and identify the origin of the fire
C. A means to silence audible alarms while maintaining visible alarm lights
D. A way to bypass the entire panel if it malfunctions  --answer

Q. A vessel's fire control plan shall be_____.

A. Posted every 150 feet along the most continuous deck on the vessel.
B. Permanently posted for the guidance of ship's officers.  --answer
C. Given to each crewmember in booklet form.
D. Translated into three languages: English, French and Spanish.

Q. A vessel's fire control plan shall_____.

A. Be posted in every space crewmembers eat and socialize.
B. Be written in English.
C. Have a duplicate set of plans permanently stored outside the deck house.  --answer
D. Provide a snapshot of the area of every crew member's stateroom in their stateroom.

Q. The general emergency alarm signal is composed of_____.

A. One long blast
B. Four long blast followed by one short blast
C. Announcement in P.A by Master
D. Seven short blasts followed by one long blast  --answer

Q. The international shore connection_____.

A. Allows hook up of fire fighting water from shore facilities  --answer
B. Satisfies pollution prevention requirements
C. Allows emergency use of the fire main for deballasting
D. Permits discharge of waste oil to shore facilities

Q. A vessel's fire control plan shall be_____.

A. Posted every 150 feet along the most continuous deck on the vessel.
B. Permanently posted for the guidance of ship's officers.  --answer
C. Given to each crewmember in booklet form.
D. Translated into three languages: English, French and Spanish.

Q. The solid arrow in the Crew Mess represents

A. Path of forced ventilation
B. Search and rescue route
C. Nearest door
D. Primary means of escape  --answer

Q. The muster list shows each rig hand's muster station, his duties during abandonment, basic instructions, and_____.

A. All emergency signals  --answer
B. Instructions for lowering the survival craft
C. The time each weekly drill will be held
D. Work schedule

Q. You must ensure that lifesaving equipment is

A. Locked up
B. Readily accessible for use  --answer
C. Inaccessible to passengers
D. On the topmost deck of the vessel at all times


Q. Besides general arrangement plans, what other mediums may be utilized to provide fire control details to officers during fire and emergencies?

A. Microfilm
B. Blueprint
C. Booklet Form  --answer

Q. If passengers are on board when an abandon ship drill is carried out, they should_____.

A. Take part  --anser
B. Watch
C. Go to their quarters
D. Stay out of the way and do what they want

Q. The connection facilities for the international shore connection must be located to provide access

A. On each side of the vessel  --answer
B. As close as possible to the house
C. On the main deck
D. On each level of the accommodation space

Q. What must be mounted at a small passenger vessel's operating station for use by the Master and crew?

A. Emergency Instructions  --answer
B. A tide table for the area
C. Instructions on artificial
D. The location of the first aid kit


Q. While reading the muster list, you see that 'three short blasts on the ship's whistle and the same signal on the general alarm bells' is the signal for_____.

A. Abandon ship
B. Dismissal from drills  --answer
C. Fire and emergency
D. Man overboard

Q. While working in the engine room, you hear seven short blasts followed by one long blast on the ship's whistle,supplemented by the same signal on the general alarm bells. You should_____.

A. Start the fire pump to charge the fire main
B. Standby the main console and await orders from the engineer on watch
C. Go to your fire station
D. Go to your lifeboat station  --answer

Q. A fireman's outfit carried onboard cargo vessels, must have a_____.

A. Canister-type gas mask
B. Fresh-air breathing apparatus
C. Self-contained breathing apparatus  --answer
D. Combustible gas indicator

Q. On the vessel's Fire Control Plan, all parts of the fire main are listed EXCEPT?

A. Fire pump(s) location
B. Fire pump capacity
C. Diameter of fire main  --answer
D. Fire station locations

Q. Remote controls for quick-closing shut off valves are required in how many location(s)?

A. 1
B. 2  --answer
C. 3
D. 4

Q. Which of the following statements is true concerning fire hose stations used in the engine room of a tanker or cargo vessel?

A. It must be marked in red letters two inches high  --answer
B. National Standard fire hose coupling threads shall be used having 9 threads per inch for 2 1/2 inch hose and 7 1/2 threads per inch for 1 1/2 inch hose.
C. In heavy weather, the hose may be removed temporarily from the hydrant.

Q. The vessel's fire control plan is laid out on which of the following type of plan?

A. General arrangement  --answer
B. Midship section
C. Subdivision
D. Lines

Q. In what location would a duplicate fire control plan normally NOT be located?

A. Navigation Bridge
B. Engine Room Control
C. Master's Office  --answer
D. Crew and Passenger Areas 

Q. Where would you look to find out what your duties are during a fire?

A. Ship's Articles
B. Certificate of Inspection
C. Muster list  --answer

Q. The locker or space containing the self-contained breathing apparatus must be_____.

A. Located in close proximity to the bridge
B. Equipped with battery powered emergency lighting
C. Marked "SELF- CONTAINED BREATHING APPARATUS"  --answer

Q. Which of the documents listed will describe lifesaving equipment located aboard your vessel?

A. Muster List ("Station Bill")
B. Certificate of Inspection  --answer
C. Forecastle card
D. Clearance papers

Q. What emergency equipment is NOT found in the Crew Mess in this view of the vessel's fire control plan?

A. Primary Means of Escape
B. Fire Alarm
C. Heat Sensor  --answer
D. Smoke Detector

Q. If your vessel is required to have a fire ax on board, where should it be located?

A. In or adjacent to the primary operating station  --answer
B. In below-decks passenger accommodations
C. Just outside the engine room access
D. In the galley near the stove

Q. In addition to the lifejackets stowed in places that are readily accessible, lifejackets must also be stowed at_____.

A. The mess room
B. The steering gear room
C. Each manned watch station  --answer
D. Each fire station

Q. Fire and lifeboat stations are required to be listed on the

A. Ship's articles
B. Manning list
C. Official log book
D. Muster List ("Station Bill")  --answer

Q. On the vessel's Fire Control Plan, all parts of a fixed fire suppression system are listed EXCEPT?

A. Spaces protected by the system
B. Extinguishing agent cylinder location
C. Remote cylinder release(s)
D. Instructions for activation of system  --answer

Q. In sprinkler system the tank pressure triggers automatic pressure relay and starts_____.

A. Fresh water pump
B. Sea water pump  --answer
C. Compressed air

Q. When discharging a portable CO2 fire extinguisher, you should NOT hold the horn of the extinguisher because the horn_____.

A. Becomes extremely hot
B. Becomes extremely cold  --answer
C. Could come off in your hands
D. Is placed directly in the flames

Q. The oxidation process creates_____.

A. Cooling
B. Chemical reaction
C. Heat --answer

Q. Which of the following statements represents the correct action to take when three crew members discover a fire?

A. One man report the fire, and the other two men fight the fire.  --answer
B. One man report the fire, one man fight the fire, and one man evacuate and secure the area.
C. One man report the fire, one man fight the fire, and one man act as a safety observer.
D. All three men fight the fire and report it immediately after it is extinguished.

Q. If heat is felt on open deck of cargo hold.

A. Cool it with water  --answer
B. Abandon ship
C. Cool it with foam extinguisher.

Q. You are underway when a fire breaks out in the forward part of your vessel. If possible, you should

A. Put the vessel's stern into the wind  --answer
B. Abandon ship to windward
C. Call for assistance
D. Keep going at half speed

Q. Before you initiate the engine room fixed CO2 system to extinguish a serious fire, you would_____.

A. Start the emergency diesel
B. Stop the main engine
C. Evacuate all engine room personnel  --answer
D. Turn off electrical power

Q. Which of the listed fire extinguishing agent combinations is the best for simultaneous use on a large oil fire?

A. A solid stream of water in conjunction with CO2.
B. Pre-cool with water fog before applying foam.  --answer
C. CO2 applied in conjunction with foam.
D. CO2 applied in conjunction with dry chemical.

Q. A high-velocity fog stream can be used in fire fighting situations to drive heat and smoke ahead of the fire fighters in a passage way. This technique should only be used when_____.

A. Using a 2-1/2 inch hose
B. There is an outlet for the smoke and heat  --answer
C. The fire is totally contained by the ship's structure
D. At least two fog streams can be used

Q. When electrical equipment is involved in a fire, the stream of dry chemicals should be_____.

A. Aimed at the source of the flames  --answer
B. Fogged above the equipment
C. Shot off a flat surface onto the flames
D. Used to shield against electrical shock

Q. A cabinet or space containing the controls or valves for the fixed firefighting system must be_____.

A. Posted with instructions on the operation of the system  --answer
B. Ventilated and equipped with explosion-proof switches
C. Painted with red and black diagonal stripes
D. Equipped with a battery powered source of emergency lighting

Q. Fixed fire fighting system for chemical tanker for cargo area should be fitted_____.

A. Near cargo area
B. Outside cargo area  --answer
C. Inside Cargo area

Q. In cargo ships the diameter of fire main need to be sufficient for the discharge of _____ with two pumps simultaneously delivering through nozzles.

A. 145m3/Hr
B. 140m3/Hr  --answer
C. 14m3/Hr
D. 135m3/Hr

Q. Isolating valves are to separate the section of the fire main from_____.

A. Machinery space  --answer
B. Accommodation space
C. Deck space

Q. The BEST method of applying foam to a fire is to

A. Spray directly on the base of the fire
B. Flow the foam down a nearby vertical surface  --answer
C. Sweep the fire with the foam
D. Spray directly on the surface of the fire


Q. The use of which type of fire extinguishing agent involves covering the burning surface by deflecting the agent from a bulkhead to avoid undue agitation?

A. Foam  --answer
B. Dry chemical
C. Carbon dioxide
D. Halon 1301

Q. Class 1 water tight door is_____.

A. Hinged type  --answer
B. Manually operated Sliding door
C. Automatically operated sliding door.

Q. The full expansion of LFL.

A. Lower fire limit
B. Lower flexi limit
C. Lower flammable limit  --answer

Q. When fighting a fire in an enclosed space, the hose team should crouch as low as possible to

A. Maneuver with the hose more easily
B. Obtain the best available air for breathing
C. Allow the heat and steam to pass overhead  --answer

Q. When using foam, a 'Class B' fire is extinguished by

A. Cooling the surface
B. Replacing the fuel
C. Smothering the fire  --answer

Q. The FIRST course of action in fighting a fire in a cargo or fuel oil tank is to_____.

A. Secure all openings to the tank  --answer
B. Discharge an initial charge of CO2 with a hand portable extinguisher
C. Direct a fire hose into the tank and energize the fire main
D. Spray the tank boundaries with a fire hose to promote cooling

Q. The BC code is replaced by _____ code.

A. IMDG
B. IMSBC  --answer
C. BLU
D. Grain

Q. Fire prevention program is made by_____.

A. Company
B. Flag state
C. Safety committee  --answer
D. Classification

Q. Which of the following statements describes how the main bank of CO2 bottles is released into an engine room from most fixed CO2 fire extinguishing systems?

A. Manually releasing the bottles in groups of four.
B. CO2 pressure from the pilot cylinders.  --answer
C. Steel wire trigger lines provided to all bottles in the main bank.
D. Remote pull cables provided to each group of four bottles in the main bank.

Q. When fighting a fire on a bulkhead using a portable carbon dioxide extinguisher, the stream should be directed at the_____.

A. Base of the flames, moving the horn from side to side, following the flames upward as they diminish  --answer
B. Top of the flaming area, moving the horn from side to side, following the flames downward as they diminish
C. Center of the flaming area, moving the horn vertically from top to bottom
D. Bottom of the flaming area, moving the horn vertically to the top following the flames upward as they diminish

Q. When fighting a fire in a space containing an IMO class 1 hazardous cargo, the most effective fire fighting procedure is to_____.

A. Shut down the ventilation and exclude all air to smother the fire
B. Use water from fire hoses or a sprinkler system  --answer
C. Activate the fixed CO2 firefighting system
D. Use high-expansion foam

Q. When fighting a fire on deck with foam, you should

A. Play the foam stream directly on the burning oil
B. Play the foam stream off nearby vertical vessel structures  --answer
C. Only use the foam on flowing liquids
D. Play the foam stream on the base of the fire with whirling motion

Q. A disadvantage of using CO2 for firefighting is that

A. The CO2 does not significantly cool the fire  --answer
B. The cylinders are regulated pressure vessels
C. They are not effective on class ""B"" fires
D. They are not effective on

Q. Additional safety measures for bulk carriers are given in_____.

A. IMSBC code
B. BLU code
C. SOLAS chapter XII  --answer

Q. In Ro-Ro vessel the vehicle batteries are_____ after loading.

A. Connected
B. Dis-connected  --answer
C. Not to be touched


Q. Which type of fire blanket not to be used nowadays.

A. Wool
B. Treated with flame retardant fluid
C. Asbestos  --answer

Q. Accommodation bulkheads are classified as_____.

A. A & B
B. A,B &C  --answer
C. A,B, C & D
D. A

Q. The usual method for effectively applying foam on a fire is by.

A. Base of the fire
B. Flowing the foam down a vertical surface  --answer
C. Sweeping the fire before you with the foam
D. Spraying directly on the surface of the fire

Q. When a rescuer discovers a burn victim in the vicinity of electrical equipment or wiring, his first step is to_____.

A. Flush water over any burned area of the patient
B. Apply ointment to the burned areas on the patient
C. Shutdown electrical power in the area  --answer
D. Remove the patient from the vicinity of the live electrical equipment or wiring

Q. Which of the listed fire extinguishing agents would be incorrect for the direct use on a gasoline or oil fire?

A. A solid stream of water  --answer
B. Low velocity water fog
C. High velocity water fog
D. Mechanical firefighting foam


Q. The straight stream capability of an all-purpose nozzle is used in fighting a class A fire to

A. Shield fire fighters from radiant heat
B. Break up burning material  --answer
C. Get the most water possible on the fire
D. Drive heat and smoke ahead of the fire fighters

Q. Class 2 water tight door is_____.

A. Hinged type
B. Manually operated Sliding door  --answer
C. Automatically operated sliding door.

Q. A fire pump may be used for other purposes if

A. The other services are run off a reducing station with a pressure gage
B. One of the required pumps is kept available for use on the fire main system at all times  --answer
C. No relief valves are installed

Q. Which extinguishing agent is the best for use on electrical fires?

A. Foam
B. CO2  --answer
C. Dry Chemical
D. Water fog Drive heat and smoke ahead of the fire fighters

Q. Blocking open or removing fire dampers can cause

A. Fixed foam systems to be ineffective
B. Faster cooling of the fire
C. The accumulation of explosive gases
D. The fire to spread through the ventilation system  --answer

Q. The containers are manufactured as per standard set by_____.

A. IMDG
B. ISO  --answer
C. Owner
D. Charterer

Q. When approaching a fire from leeward you should shield fire fighters from the fire by using_____.

A. A straight stream of
B. Foam spray
C. High-velocity fog  --answer
D. Low-velocity fog

Q. In fighting a fire in a fuel tank, the FIRST action you should attempt is to_____.

A. Secure all sources of fresh air to the tank  --answer
B. Begin transferring the fuel to other tanks
C. Top off the tank to force out all vapors
D. Station someone at the fixed CO2 release controls

Q. When combating an oil fire in a deep tank aboard ship, water fog can be used to extinguish the fire and

A. Contain the burning liquid
B. Prevent any deformation of the tank top
C. Cool the surrounding area  --answer
D. Eliminate flammable combustion gases

Q. When the fire alarm is sounded continuously, the engine room personnel should_____.

A. Proceed to their man overboard stations
B. Start the fire pump  --answer
C. Put on lifejackets and go to their abandon ship stations
D. Secure the propulsion diesel engines and evacuate the engine room

Q. When attempting to enter a compartment containing a fire, which method of applying water is best?

A. High-velocity fog stream directed toward the overhead
B. Straight stream directed into the center of the fire
C. Sweeping the compartment with a fog stream  --answer
D. Solid stream directed toward the overhead

Q. How to make static charge of two paint drum equal.

A. By pouring paint from one drum to the other
B. By keeping both the drum on the floor
C. Keep one drum on to the other drum  --answer

Q. The manual call point for fire alarm is_____.

A. Located near fire detector
B. Located near exit  --answer
C. Located near fire extinguisher

Q. The ship’s carrying more than 36 passengers should carry out_____.

A. Fire drill
B. Fire patrol system  --answer
C. Extinguisher operation

Q. TAPIOCA are susceptible to_____ when damp.

A. Degrade
B. Spontaneous combustion  --answer
C. Toxic


Q. The success of an indirect attack on a fire depends on the

A. Size of the fire when initially observed
B. Complete containment of the fire  --answer
C. Cooling ability of the firefighting agent
D. Class of the fire

Q. Many cargoes in chemical carrier are_____.

A. Non flammable
B. Non toxic
C. Flammable  --answer

Q. Dry chemical powder extinguishing system is_____.

A. Smothering agent
B. Flame inhibitor  --answer
C. Fire retardant

Q. A small coal cargo tends to remain in_____.

A. Bottom
B. Center  --answer
C. Top
D. Sides

Q. What must be located on the discharge side of the pump in a fire main system?

A. Pressure gauge  --answer
B. Strainer
C. Reduction valve
D. International shore connection

Q. In CO2 fire extinguisher the CO2 will be under_____ pressure.

A. 60bar
B. 53bar  --answer
C. 75bar

Q. To fight a large class "A" fire contained in a closed compartment, the nozzleman should open a door enough to insert the hose nozzle and initially_____.

A. Sweep a straight stream around the compartment
B. Hold the nozzle steady while applying a straight stream in the area where he suspects the source of the fire to be
C. Sweep a fog stream around the compartment  --answer
D. Hold the nozzle steady and direct a fog stream in the area where he suspects the fire

Q. The fixed fire extinguishing system used in container ship cargo hold will be_____.

A. Foam
B. Water
C. DCP
D. CO2  --answer

Q. The risk of fire and explosion is _____in tankers

A. Very low
B. Quantitative
C. Very high  --answer

Q. If the cargo emits flammable gases what you should do.

A. Make the hold air tight
B. Ventilate the hold  --answer
C. Make a warning sign


Q. The designated area of smoking is specified in _____.

A. Company’s manual.  --answer
B. SOLAS
C. RED book

Q. All tanker over 40,000 tons dead weight are required to have

A. Fixed fire fighting system
B. Inert gas system  --answer
C. Cargo tank protection system

Q. After extinguishing a fire with CO2, it is advisable to

A. Use all CO2 available to cool the surrounding area
B. Stand by with water or other  --answer
C. Thoroughly ventilate the space of CO2
D. Jettison all burning materials

Q. After a fire has been extinguished in a closed space, personnel may safely enter the space when _____.

A. Smoke density has been decreased sufficiently to see the bulkhead opposite the compartment's entrance
B. A lifeline and explosion proof flash light are used
C. All smoke and toxic fumes are removed and an adequate oxygen supply is present  --answer
D. Overhaul has been completed to remove any possible source of reignition

Q. A definite advantage in the use of water as a fire extinguishing agent is its ability to _____.

A. Alternate expansion and contraction as water in liquid state becomes vapor
B. Absorb smoke and gases as water is converted from liquid to vapor
C. Rapidly contract as water is converted from a liquid to a vapor
D. Vaporize and rapidly expand as water absorbs heat  --answer

Q. A portable dry chemical fire extinguisher discharges by _____.

A. Gravity when the extinguisher is turned upside down
B. Pressure from a small CO2 cartridge on the extinguisher  --answer
C. Air pressure from the hand pump attached to the extinguisher
D. Pressure from the reaction when water is mixed with the chemical

Q. A continuous blast of the whistle for a period of not less than 10 seconds, supplemented by the continuous ringing of the general alarm bells for not less than 10 seconds, would indicate a _____.

A. Fire  --answer
B. Collision
C. Man overboard
D. Flooded compartment

Q. Operation of the release control valve on a fixed CO2 fire extinguishing system, will _____.

A. Release CO2 to the protected space  --answer
B. Secure all mechanical ventilation in the protected space
C. Sound the general alarm signal for a fire
D. Sound an alarm in the ballast control room

Q. At the earliest indication of fire aboard your vessel, you must FIRST _____.

A. Locate the fire
B. Determine which type of fire is burning
C. Sound the alarm  --answer
D. Fight the fire

Q. One of the main concerns when fighting a galley fire is

A. Contamination food with extinguishing agent
B. Spreading of fire through the engineering space
C. The loss of stability
D. The igniting of a grease fire in the range hood ventilation system  --answer

Q. Which statement describes the primary process by which fires are extinguished by dry chemical?

A. The stream of dry chemical powder cools the fire.
B. The dry chemical powder attacks the fuel and oxygen chain reaction.  --answer
C. The powder forms a solid coating over the surface.
D. The dry chemical smothers the fire.

Q. To extinguish an electrical fire, your FIRST action should be to_____.

A. Apply a low velocity fog
B. Secure the power  --answer
C. Completely discharge a 15 pound (6.8 kg) CO2 extinguisher
D. Apply mechanical or chemical foam

Q. Before a shipboard fire can be declared completely out, which of the following conditions must be established?

A. The cause of the fire is to be known.
B. The fire area is safe for men to enter without a breathing apparatus  --answer
C. The fire area is sufficiently cooled so that accidental skin burns will not occur.

Q. While on watch in the engine room, you hear a continuous sounding of the general alarm. Which of the following actions should you take FIRST?

A. Secure the burners then proceed to your assigned boat station.
B. Start the fire pump and establish flow to the fire main.  --answer
C. Open the guardian valve and standby to maneuver.
D. Open the master control valves on the fixed CO2 system.

Q. Which of the actions listed should be taken by the engineer on watch when the general alarm is sounded continuously for 10 seconds?

A. Engine room ventilation should be started.
B. Main engines should be secured.
C. The fire pump should be started.  --answer
D. The fixed CO2 system should be activated.

Q. Which statement is TRUE about fire fighting foam?

A. The air bubbles in foam act as an insulator in fighting a class C fire.
B. The effectiveness of foam in forming a blanket over a burning liquid increases as the temperature of the liquid increases.
C. Foam can be used to control gases escaping from compressed gas cylinders.
D. Foam sets up a vapor barrier over a flammable liquid preventing flammable gases from rising.  --answer

Q. A portable foam (stored-pressure type) fire extinguisher would be most useful in combating a fire in_____.

A. Generators
B. Oil drums  --answer
C. The bridge controls
D. Combustible metals

Q. Why should you wear a self-contained breathing apparatus before entering the engine room after the fixed CO2 system has been discharged to combat a major fire?

A. Because carbon dioxide dilutes the oxygen concentration in the atmosphere and may cause asphyxiation.  --answer
B. Because carbon dioxide breaks down in a fire into carbon monoxide which may cause blood poisoning in the person breathing this gas.
C. Because carbon dioxide is a colorless and odorless gas that becomes highly toxic in the presence of high temperatures and will quickly incapacitate a person exposed to this gas.
D. This action is unnecessary as carbon dioxide is not poisonous nor toxic but is a relatively harmless gas.

Q. Which statement is TRUE concerning the application of foam on an oil fire?

A. It cools the surface of the liquid.
B. It gives protection to fire fighting personnel against the heat of the fire.
C. It forms a smothering blanket on the surface of the oil.  --answer
D. It should be used at the same time a solid stream of water is being applied.

Q. When should a fire be ventilated?

A. When attacking the fire directly  --answer
B. When using a steam smothering system
C. When using the fixed CO2 system

Q. Which of the listed classes of fire is considered as one involving electrical equipment, as per NFPA?

A. Class "A"
B. Class "B"
C. Class "C"  --answer
D. Class "D"


