Q. The poop deck is located

A. Adjacent to the steering flat   aaaaaaaaaa
B. Fore part of the ship
C. Above the bridge
D. Above the engine room


Q. The international distress, safety and calling frequency is channel_____

A. 16   aaaaaaaaaa
B. 18
C. 22
D. 13

Q. Life jacket should be marked with the _____

A. Maximum weight allowed
B. Stowage space assigned
C. Vessel’s home port
D. Vessel’s name     aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Empathetic listening helps you to

A. Improve mutual understanding and trust		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Improve mutual understanding
C. Improve mutual understanding and feeling
D. Improve trust and friendship


Q. Balancing life goals , taking of thoughts and emotions and managing schedules are all components of _____

A. Identifying source of stress
B. Taking control
C. Copying with stress		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
D. none of this

Q. Direct blood contact through all except

A. Needle sharing
B. Transfusion
C. Sharing of beds		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Accident in health care settings

Q. The problem of misunderstanding can be eliminated by providing ____ to the clients, while explain in the process

A. Theories
B. Examples		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Sample
D. maths

Q. In verbal communication process, the direct exchange of ____ occurs, between the sender and the receiver

A. Mails
B. Words		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Gestures
D. none of the above

Q. What is discrimination ?

A. Making false statement about others
B. Making judgements or statements based upon making comparisons		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Judging people discriminately
D. Making hateful content


Q. What governs safe procedures at work

A. The international convention on standards of training, certificate and keeping for seafarers (STCW)
B. International safety management (ISM) code safety and health
C. Occupational act (OSHA)
D. The code of safe working practices		aaaaaaaaaa


Q. How do you combat harassment ?

A. By being assertive 		aaaaaaaa
B. By reporting harassing behavior to your superiors
C. By confronting the harasser
D. none of these

Q. What is the key to leadership ?

A. Taking authority
B. Taking responsibility
C. Effective communications		aaaaaaaa
D. none of these

Q. What term indicated an inward curvature of the ship’s hull above the waterline ?

A. Camber
B. Tumble home		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Deadrise
D. none of these

Q. During fueling operation, which of the listed precautions should be taken when topping off fuel tanks ?

A. Reduce the pumping rate by closing the deck filling valve
B. Close all overflow valves
C. Place 5 gallon containers under all flange connections in the fuel line
D. Reduce the pumping rate and sound tanks frequently 		aaaaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Compared to oil tankers, chemical tankers are

A. More complex to operate		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Less complex to operate
C. As large as oil tankers
D. Capable of carrying only one grade of chemical

Q. In the concept of shiphandling, what would be the definition of shallow water

A. Water depth of less than twice a vessel’s draft		aaaaaaaaa
B. Water depth of less than 1-1/2 times a vessel’s draft
C. Under keel clearance of twice a vessel’s draft
D. Under keel clearance of less than 10 feet

Q. What is the life saving signal at day for “ you are seen-assistance will be given as soon as possible’ ?

A. Green star rocket
B. Red star rocket
C. Orange smoke signal		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Horizontal motion a flag

Q. The receiver misunderstood the sender's message and

A. This could lead to effective communication
B. This could lead to a barrier to effective communication		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
C. This could lead to wonderful communication
D. None of these

Q. Which engineering staff is in charge of engine room maintenance ?

A. 2 nd engineer		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. Chief engineer
C. 3rd engineer
D. Master


Q. Physical stress

A. Rarely causes emotional stress
B. Is often a symptom of emotional stress		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Rarely is connected to diet
D. Is often found in people who exercise regularly

Q. Self induced stress is mainly due to

A. Family
B. Personality		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Economy
D. Health

Q. “Human elements” in ship means

A. Human behavior		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. Human relationship
C. Human interaction
D. Human error

Q. Displacement refers to the _____

A. Cubic capacity of a vessel
B. Deadweight carrying a vessel
C. Gross tonnage off a vessel
D. Number of long tons of water displaced by vessel a float		aaaaaaaaaaaaaa

Q. When a fuel oil is being topped off during bunkering operations, the tank value should enclosed _____

A. Slowly to prevent surge stresses
B. To prevent gas from escaping through the pressure vacuum relief valves		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. After the shore pumps are stopped
D. Rapidly to prevent overflow


Q. Oil pollution regulations any transfer, or discharge of oil or oily mixtures be recorded in the

A. Pollution control record		aaaaaaaaa
B. To prevent gas from escaping through the pressure- vacuum relief valves
C. After the shore pumps are stopped
D. Rapidly to prevent overflow

Q. Ground garbage which will be discharged into sea , must be able to pass through a screen with a mesh size no longer than _____

A. 25 millimeters		aaaaaaaaaa
B. 50 millimeters
C. 75 millimeters
D. 100 millimeters

Q. Name of two officers who liaise with each other to try out the steering gear

A. Chief engineer and chief officer
B. Second engineer and second officer
C. Third engineer and third officer		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. None of These

Q. Speech rate is usually much ____ than the rate at which we think

A. Tedious
B. Slower		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Faster
D. None of the above

Q. Answering signals made by life-saving stations when signals seen from a ship by day are

A. Orange smoke signal		aaaaaaaaaa
B. Parachute rocket
C. Hand flare
D. Second officer


Q. The Ism code requires work procedures which ensure _____ performance

A. Superior
B. Profitable
C. Safe		aaaaaaa
D. Excellent

Q. Arms at hips establish dominance and the person's communication is about a/an _____.

A. Issue		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. Misinterpretation
C. Dilemma

Q. How many VHF survival craft transceivers are required aboard passenger ships ?

A. 2
B. 3		aaaaaaaaa
C. 4
D. 5

Q. The radiotelephone safety message urgently concerned with safety of a person would be prefixed by the word _____

A. Mayday
B. Pan		aaaaaaaa
C. Safety
D. Intereco

Q. If more than one liferaft is manned after the vessel has sunk, what action will aid in your rescue ?

A. Each raft should go in a different direction in search of land
B. The possibility of a search aircraft finding you is increased by spreading out
C. Tie each of the rafts together and try to stay in a single group		aaaaaaaaa
D. Reduce the number of liferaft


Q. Welding shields primarily protect against

A. Dust
B. Metal splatter		aaaaaaa
C. Splashes

Q. Hearing protection is required when you are exposed to a noise level of 85 decibels or higher for an 8-hour period of time

A. True		aaaaaaaa
B. False

Q. When should the control of flooding of your vessel be addressed ?

A. Only if a threat exists
B. Following control of fire		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Following restoration of vital services
D. First

Q. A motor lifeboat shall carry sufficient fuel to operate continuously for a period of which duration ?

A. 12 hours
B. 18 hours
C. 24 hours		aaaaaa
D. 23 hours

Q. Information on fire safety and hazard control practices and procedures on a vessel is described in

A. The engine room log
B. The vessel’s safety management		aaaaaaaaaa
C. The bar diary
D. The instruction written on fire extinguishers

Q. In the event of a person falling overboard, you would

A. Encourage passengers to jump in to rescue the MOB
B. Ask passengers to stand back to allow crew to manage emergency		aaaaaaaaa
C. Jump overboard to rescue the MOB
D. Push the passengers into the cabin and lock the door

Q. You are evacuating crew members from a survival craft that has been adrift in the north Atlantic for several days. What could occur if a person suffering from hypothermia is vertically lifted in a rescue sling to the helicopter ?

A. A decrease in the symptoms of hypothermia
B. Temporary blindness from the altitude change
C. Severe shock or cardiac arrest		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Frostbite on exposed areas

Q. Life buoys are subjected to which of the following tests ?

A. Crop test
B. Fire test
C. Floatation test
D. All of the above		aaaaaaa

Q. A continuous ringing of a ship’s bell indicates

A. Go to muster station
B. Abandon ship
C. A fire emergency		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Dinner is ready

Q. Informational on safety and hazard control practices and procedures on a vessel is described in

A. Your employment contract
B. The vessel’s log book
C. The instructions written on lifebuoys
D. The vessel’s safety management manual		aaaaaaaa

Q. Smoking is only permitted in the galley between meals

A. True
B. False		aaaaaa

Q. A person who sees someone fall overboard should ____.

A. Go to the bridge for the distress flares
B. Run to the radio room to send an emergency message
C. Call for help and keep the individual in sight		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Immediately jump in the water to assist the individual

Q. Safety equipment is checked by the crew

A. Before and during each voyage		aaaaaaaaaa
B. Only at annuals surveys
C. Not the responsibility of the crew
D. If it is damaged


Q. If it was required to abandon ship, you should

A. Push all passengers to slip into the water or life raft
B. Assist the passengers to slip into the water or life raft		aaaaaaa
C. Get all passengers off before inflating the life raft
D. Jump into the water first to encourage

Q. Passengers to follow you A muster station list includes

A. The place of emergency assembly		aaaaaa
B. The emergency signals used by the vessel
C. The allocation of lifeboats for passengers only
D. The allowance of personal property you can take

Q. Eye protection is required for which of the following hazards ?

A. Flying particles
B. Liquid chemicals, acids or caustic liquids
C. Chemical gasses or vapors
D. All of the above		aaaaaaa

Q. Which of the following types of gloves should you wear when working with chemicals ?

A. Butyl rubber gloves		aaaaaaaaaa
B. Fabric gloves
C. Leather gloves
D. Both A and C

Q. Personal protective equipment is required when

A. Employers suffer an injury
B. An employees suffer an injury
C. An employee asks for it
D. Engineering, work practice, and administrative controls do not provide sufficient protection against hazards		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. After being called to muster stations, if sometime will elapse before abandonment, the master should ensure that all passengers and crew

A. Have a glass of whisky to keep them warm
B. Go to the toilet before abandoning
C. Choose the life raft they want to go into
D. Have a good drink of water and collect grab bags and warm clothing		aaaaaaaa

Q. You have heard the signal seven short + one prolonged blast. You should

A. Report directly to your muster station with your suitcase and life jacket
B. Jump overboard
C. Collect the nearest available life jacket and proceed on deck as fast as possible		aaaaaaa
D. Seek out other passengers to find out the nature of the problem

Q. The safe and efficient use of the face piece of a demand type self contained breathing apparatus is directly influenced by

A. The donning of the face piece
B. The stowing of the face piece
C. The maintenance of face piece
D. All of the above		aaaaaaa

Q. The person is responsible for ensuring that the required drills are carried out is the

A. The local waterways inspector
B. The master, skipper or designated person		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. The engineer on board
D. The owner

Q. In the event of a small rubbish bin fire in the accommodation, you would

A. Shout fire, fire so all the passengers in the cabin hear you
B. Go to see the skipper to ask his advice
C. Pick it up and run with it to the outer decks
D. Cover it with a fire blanket		aaaaaaaaa

Q. Communication between member of a fire fighting team

A. Must be by hand signal to avoid smoke inhalation
B. Are not possible when using breathing apparatus
C. Must be clear, detailed, acknowledged and timely
D. Must be clear, concise, acknowledged and timely		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. After having activated the emergency position indicating radio beacon (EPIRB) , you should _____

A. Turn it OFF for five minutes every half hour
B. Turn it OFF and on at five min intervals
C. Turn it OFF during daylight hours
D. Leave it ON continuously		aaaaaaa

Q. After being launched a totally enclosed lifeboat which has been afloat over a long period of time requires _____

A. Frequent opening of hatches to permit entry of fresh air
B. Regular checks and pumping out of the bilge levels		aaaaaaaa
C. Use of ear plugs to dampen engine noise
D. Frequent flushing of the water spray system with fresh water

Q. Using a hand held smoke signal aboard a survival craft you should activate the signal _____

A. On the upwind side of the craft
B. Inside the craft
C. At the stern of the craft
D. On the downwind side of the craft		aaaaaa

Q. What should you do first if you see a man fall overboard ?

A. Alert other crew members and try to keep him or the lifebuoy in sight
B. Inform the officer of the watch
C. Release the nearest lifebuoy on the side he has fallen		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Dive into the sea after him to attempt a rescue

Q. In a distress situation, how many times or for how long should the emergency alarm signal be sounded ?

A. Three times
B. 3 minutes
C. Until all crew members and passengers have reported to their respective muster stations		aaaaaaaa
D. Until the emergency is over

Q. When firing, the line throwing apparatus should be held at

A. 30 degrees to the horizontal
B. 45 degrees to the horizontal		aaaaaaaaaa
C. 60 degrees to the horizontal
D. 75 degrees to the horizontal

Q. Immersion suit can be unpacked and donned within _____

A. 2 minutes		aaaaaaaa
B. 3 minutes
C. 4 minutes
D. 5 minutes


Q. What is the remedy to save face from spark generated during welding and grinding ?

A. Goggles
B. Helmets
C. Face shield		aaaaaaa
D. Nose mask

Q. Which is the life saving signal for, “this is the best place to land” ?

A. Orange smoke signal
B. Red star rocket
C. Horizontal motion of a flag
D. Green star rocket		aaaaaaaa

Q. Information on safety and hazard control particles and procedures on a vessel is described in

A. Your employment contract
B. The vessel’s log book
C. The instruction written on lifebuoys
D. The vessel’s safety management manual		aaaaa

Q. When securing the accommodation for sea, empty lockers don’t need to be closed

A. True
B. False		aaaaaaaa

Q. Your vessel is equipped with totally enclosed lifeboats which statement is TRUE when the boat is enveloped in flames ?

A. A water spray system to cool the outside of the boat is operated
B. An air tank will provide about 10 min of air for the survivors and the engine		aaaaa
C. The ventilators will automatically close by the action of fusible links
D. The motor takes its air supply from outside the lifeboat to prevent asphyxiation of the crew

Q. Spaces containing batteries require good ventilation because _____.

A. Less electrolyte is required to maintain the batteries charge
B. Ventilation supplies more oxygen for charging the battery
C. Ventilation avoids flammable gas accumulation		aaaaaaaa
D. Ventilation avoids co build up

Q. You are in a survival craft broadcasting a distress message. What information would be essential to your rescuers ?

A. The nature of the distress
B. The time of day
C. Your radio call sign
D. Your position by latitude and longitude		aaaaaa

Q. Which of the following is considered to be the safest protection from static electric discharge, when connecting or disconnecting cargo hoses and metal arms ?

A. Insulating flange or a length of non conducting hose
B. Switching off ICCP
C. Ship shore bonding cable		aaaaaaa
D. None of the above

Q. Reporting ??? near misses ??? is encouraged under which maritime instrument ?

A. Code of safe working practices
B. ISM code		aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
C. SOLAS Chapter-2
D. All of the above

Q. Distress flares need to be renewed every

A. Five years from date of manufacture
B. Seven years from the date of manufacture
C. One year from the manufacture
D. Three years from date of manufacture		aaaaaaaaaaaa

Q. The revolving drum of a windlass which is used to handle lines is called a _____

A. Warping drum		aaaaaaaaaa
B. Lines drum
C. Dog clutch
D. Gypsy

Q. What bare minimum should be done before working on electrical equipment ?

A. Open the equipment and commence work
B. Switch off the mains and starts working
C. Complete electrical isolation checklist		aaaaaaaaa
D. None


Q. Under STCW regulation, what must each new crew member do before commencing assigned duties ?

A. Locate his working area and working clothes
B. Read all posted notices/regulations carefully
C. Be familiar with safety procedures		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
D. Report to the master for signing on the ship’s articles

Q. You are standing in the wheel watch when you hear the cry. “man overboard starboard side”. You should instinctively _____.

A. Give full right rudder		aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Give full left rudder
C. Put the rudder amidships
D. Throw a life ring to mark the spot

Q. What is the international signal for man overboard ?

A. Repeated raising and lowering of arms
B. Three short blasts on the whistle
C. Three long blasts followed by three short blasts on the whistle
D. 3 long blasts on the whistle		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. A short and a prolonged blast three times over on the ship’s horn indicates ‘Abandon ship’

A. True
B. False		aaaaaaaa

Q. Where would you find details of your tasks and duties in case of an emergency ?

A. In the muster list		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. On posters at the lifeboat station
C. In notices posted in mess rooms, recreation rooms, etc
D. In notices posted in the crew’s cabin

Q. An emergency station list should be displayed on any vessel with more than_____.

A. 4 crew members		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. 10 crew members
C. 3 crew members
D. 1 crew member

Q. What is the ship's contingency plan ?

A. The plan for the next voyage
B. The loading plan for hazardous cargo
C. The plan for safety preparedness		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
D. The plan for maintenance and repair of safety equipment

Q. Persons on board In heavy seas the helmsman should steer the survival craft_____.

A. Into the seas		aaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Broadside to the seas
C. In a series of figure-eights
D. In the same direction as the seas

Q. What should you do when you hear a ship's emergency signal ?

A. Put on warm clothes and your life jacket
B. Ignore the signals unless you have been told there will be a drill
C. Report to your master station   aaaaaaa
D. Telephone the bridge for advice

Q. Warning signage information for restricted areas and emergency procedures

A. Only apply to passengers
B. Should be known and implemented   aaaaaaaaa
C. Can be removed if they are in the way
D. Are found in every compartment of the vessel

Q. Body language includes a person’s eye contact, smile, frown etc, that convey _____.

A. Messages   aaaaaaa
B. Information
C. Content
D. None

Q. Life jackets are kept

A. In overhead lockers
B. Out of harms way in the wheelhouse
C. In the plastic bag to prevent mold
D. Where they can be easily seen and accessed  aaaaaaa

Q. If you notice that a piece of equipment is broken what should you do ?

A. Report it to the officer on watch		aaaaaaaaa
B. Get another AB to help you fix it
C. Try to fix it yourself
D. Pretend that you have not noticed that anything is broken

Q. How can information regarding a sick person or injured person be disseminated to the CIRM ?

A. By using the appropriate reporting form		aaaaaaaaaa
B. By contacting the family doctor of the sick persons
C. By passing on medical examination report from the company
D. None of the above


Q. Loose gear should be lashed in front of the freezing ports so it will not roll about the decks

A. True
B. False   aaaaaaaaaa

Q. If you saw wisps of smoke coming keeping out under the engine room door you immediately

A. Raise the alarm		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. Activate the fixed fire fighting system
C. Shut off the main fuel supply
D. Close the air vents

Q. In relation to the turning circle of a ship, the term "transfer" means the distance____.

A. Gained in the direction of the original course
B. Gained at right angles to the original course		aaaaaaaaaa
C. The ship moves sidewise from the original course away from the direction of the turn after the rudder is first put ove
D. Around the circumference of the turning circle

Q. From the illustration given below, identify the name of the marking “18”.
A. Bollard
B. Rudder		aaaaaaa
C. Bilge keel
D. Hatch

Q. Which of the following actions are stated in the correct order prior to loading or discharging cargo on a Ro-Ro vessel?

A. Lower the stern ramp, raise/open the stern door, turn on ventilation for cargo holds		aaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Turn on ventilation for cargo holds, raise/open the stern door, lower the stern ramp
C. Turn on ventilation for cargo holds, lower the stern ramp, raise/open the stern door
D. Raise/open the stern door, lower the stern ramp, turn on ventilation for cargo holds

Q. Which number represents the "Derrick boom" in the illustration given below?

A. 25
B. 27
C. 24		aaaaaaaaaa
D. 26

Q. The figure obtained by dividing the total volume of the ship in cubic feet (after omission of exempted spaces) by 100 is the_____.

A. Bale cubic
B. Gross tonnage		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Light displacement
D. Net tonnage

Q. What does “1” indicate in the diagram given below?

A. King post
B. Skylight
C. Derrick post		aaaaaaaaa
D. Range light 

Q. Which deck staff is in charge of cargo operations?

A. Master
B. 2nd Officer
C. 3rd Officer
D. Chief Officer		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. In the below diagram the part “K” indicates _____.
A. Hatch coaming
B. Head under beams
C. Upper tweendeck		aaaaaaaaa
D. Deckhead

Q. Who is responsible for the deck log book

A. Watchstanding deck officer
B. 2nd Mate
C. Chief Officer
D. Master 		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. How should steam pipes be protected in machinery spaces?

A. They should be painted in different colors
B. They should be lagged		aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
C. They should have placards to warn personnel

Q. The part “5” indicates _____.

A. Cover plate
B. Shell plate		aaaaaaaaa
C. Top cover
D. Hatch cover

Q. In the context of shiphandling, what would be the definition of shallow water?

A. Water depth of less than twice a vessel's draft  	aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Water depth of less than 1-1/2 times a vessel's draft
C. Under keel clearance of twice a vessel's draft
D. Under keel clearance of less than 10 feet

Q. What does “A” indicate in the diagram given below?
A. Shell door		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Stern door
C. Bulkhead door

Q. What does “L” indicate in this figure?
A. Lower hold
B. Lower tweendeck		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Head under beams
D. Hatch coaming

Q. In the below diagram the part “11” indicates _____
A. Foremast
B. Windlass
C. Funnel		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Hatch

Q. Identify “13” in the figure given below.
A. Rudder
B. Stern
C. Bulbous bow		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. What precaution should be taken while lifting heavy loads in the engine room?

A. All personnel should stand under the load
B. All personnel should operate the controls
C. All personnel should stand clear of the load being lifted		aaaaaaaa

Q. The distance a vessel moves at right angles to the original course, when a turn of 180° has been completed, is called the_____.

A. Advance
B. Pivoting point
C. Tactical diameter		aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
D. Kick

Q. Which number represents the "Propeller" in the illustration given below?

A. 17
B. 19		aaaaaaaaaa
C. 18
D. 20

Q. What does ISM stand for in the ISM Code?

A. International Security Mandate
B. Internal Safety Management
C. International Safety Management		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Internal Security Management

Q. Multipurpose ships are generally used for carrying is

A. Containers
B. Heavy lift cargo		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Iron ore
D. Liquid cargo

Q. What international regulatory requirements govern management & organization onboard?

A. MARPOL
B. OPA 90
C. STCW
D. STCW & the ISM Code of the IMO		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. As a watchstander, when should you relieve your prior watchstander? A. 30-15 minutes before the start of your watch

A. 30-15 minutes before the start of your watch		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. 5 minutes before your watch
C. On time
D. 1 hour before your watch starts

Q. In the diagram given below, “2” represents _____.
A. 40 Feet long container
B. 20 Feet long container		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. 30 Feet long container

Q. How does the effect known as "bank suction" act on a single-screw vessel proceeding along a narrow channel?

A. It pulls the stern toward the bank		aaaaaaaaa
B. It heels the vessel toward the bank
C. It pushes the entire vessel away from the bank
D. It pulls the bow toward the bank

Q. The area indicated by the number “14” is known as the _____.

The area indicated by the number “14” is known as the _____.
A. Sparring sleeper
B. Manhole		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Steel wall
D. Socket

Q. The distance a vessel moves parallel to the original course from the point where the rudder is put over to any point on the turning circle is called the_____.

A. Advance		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. Drift angle
C. Pivoting point
D. Transfer

Q. What is the Safety Management System (SMS)?

A. Part of SOLAS for safety of crew
B. Part of the Company's policies & procedures for first aid
C. Part of the ISM code which requires work procedures to ensure safe/good performance		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Part of the STCW which provides for safe management systems

Q. The upward slope of a vessel's bottom from the keel to the bilge is called_____.

A. Camber
B. Sheer
C. Rake
D. Rise of bottom		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Vehicles are loaded on to a Ro Ro Ferry through the

A. Hatch cover
B. Tween deck
C. Bulbous bow
D. Ramp		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. In the diagram given below, “B” represents ____
A. Stem
B. Bulbous bow
C. Container		aaaaaaaa
D. Rudder


Q. From the illustration given below, identify the name of the marking “33”.
A. Derrick boom
B. Foremast		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Derrick post
D. King post

Q. Which term refers to a transverse curvature of the deck?

A. Deadrise
B. Camber		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Freeboard
D. Flare

Q. A vessel will "squat" when it proceeds underway_____.

A. Only in deep water
B. Only in shallow water
C. In all depths of water		aaaaaaaaa
D. Only in narrow channels

Q. When underway and proceeding ahead, as the speed increases, the pivot point tends to_____.

A. Move aft
B. Move forward		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Move lower
D. Remain stationary

Q. What is “7” showing in the figure given below?

A. Derrick post
B. King post
C. Radar mast		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
D. Foremast

Q. What does “1” indicate in the diagram given below?
A. King post
B. Skylight
C. Derrick post		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Range light

Q. The highest place on a ship which houses antennas is

A. The bridge
B. The monkey island		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. The fore mast
D. The aft mast

Q. Identify “M” in the figure given below.
A. Lower hold		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Lower tweendeck
C. Deckhead
D. Head under beams 

Q. In the below diagram the part “21” indicates _____.
A. Bollard
B. Rudder
C. Lifeboat		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
D. Hatch

Q. Which letter represents the "Crane" in the illustration given below?
A. A
B. D		aaaaaaaaaa
C. B
D. C

Q. Multipurpose ships generally have

A. No cargo handling gear
B. To use shore cranes to discharge cargo
C. Their own cargo handling gear to discharge cargo		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. No high capacity cranes

Q. Accommodation space of a ship is provided

A. In one deck
B. In two decks
C. In three decks
D. In multiple decks depending on crew strength		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Identify the part “25”.
Identify the part “25”.

A. Winch
B. Hatch		aaaaaaaaa
C. Funnel
D. Rudder

Q. What does item “J” refer to the illustration given below?

What does item “J” refer to the illustration given below?
A. Hatch coaming
B. Hatchway		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Hatch cover
D. Upper tweendeck

Q. The total weight of cargo, fuel, water, stores, passengers and crew, and their effects, that a ship can carry, is the_____.

A. Bale cubic
B. Deadweight		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Gross tonnage
D. Loaded displacement

Q. What term indicates a curvature of the decks in a longitudinal direction?

A. Deadrise
B. Camber
C. Sheer		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Flare

Q. What does figure “C” represent?
What does figure “C” represent?

A. Top cover
B. Hatch cover		aaaaaaaa
C. Ramp cover

Q. What precautions must be taken in the vicinity of the engine room bilges?

A. Should be covered with muck and debris
B. Should be clear of rubbish		aaaaaaa
C. Should be allowed to corrode

Q. Bulk carriers are designed to transport

A. Crude oil
B. Containers
C. Heavy lifts
D. Bulk cargo 		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. What term indicates the length measured along the summer load line from the intersection of that load line with the foreside of the stem and the intersection of that load line with the after side of the rudder post?

A. Length overall
B. Register length
C. Length between perpendiculars		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Length on the waterline

Q. Accommodation space of a ship is generally located

A. Above the engine room
B. Below the bridge		aaaaaaaaaa
C. At the stern
D. At the bow

Q. What should be prohibited in the vicinity of battery rooms?

A. Painting
B. Washing
C. Smoking 		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Which number represents the "Freeing port" in the illustration given below?

A. 25
B. 27		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. 26
D. 28


Q. The part “5” indicates _____.

The part “5” indicates _____.

A. Stern
B. Propeller
C. Rudder 		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Ultra large crude carriers can carry cargo up to

A. 200000 tons
B. 300000 tons
C. 400000 tons
D. 500000 tons		aaaaaaaaa

Q. The head of the Engine Department is _____

A. Master
B. Chief Engineer		aaaaaaaa
C. 2nd Engineer
D. Chief Officer

Q. What term indicates the outward curvature of the hull above the waterline?

A. Sheer
B. Tumble home
C. Deadrise
D. Flare	aaaaaaaaa

Q. A passenger ship is any ship with accommodation for more than

A. 4 passengers
B. 6 passengers
C. 9 passengers
D. 12 passengers			aaaaaaaaaaaa

Q. What does “D” stand for in the image given below?

A. Bridge deck
B. Double hull
C. Forecastle		aaaaaaaa
D. Service gallery


Q. The cargo hold of a cellular container ship has the following fittings inside

A. Cell guides		aaaaaaa
B. Pillars
C. Hatch boards
D. Tween deck

Q. The part “E” indicates _____.
A. Stern door
B. Bulkhead door
C. Shell door		aaaaaaaa

Q. The forecastle is at

A. Stern of the ship
B. Fore part of the ship		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Amidships
D. Above the bridge


Q. When backing down with sternway, the pivot point of a vessel is_____.

A. About one-quarter of the vessel's length from the stem		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. At the bow
C. About one-third of the vessel's length from the bow
D. Aft of the propellers

Q. Crude oil tankers carry

A. Naptha cargo
B. Crude oil		aaaaaaa
C. Kerosene oil
D. Chemical cargo

Q. What does item “J” refer to the illustration given below?

A. Hoistable ramp
B. Stern ramp		aaaaaaaaa
C. Side ramp

Q. What does figure “C” represent?

What does figure “C” represent?
A. Forecastle
B. Mast top and foremast		aaaaaaaa
C. Double hull
D. Bridge deck

Q. What are the normal duty hours for a watchstander?

A. 6 hours on and 6 hours off
B. 4 hours on and 8 hours off		aaaaaaaa
C. 4 hours on and 4 hours off
D. 8 hours on and 8 hours off

Q. The upward slope of a ships bottom from the keel to the bilge is known as_____.

A. Camber
B. Slope
C. Deadrise		aaaaaaaa
D. Keel height

Q. What departments are there on board a vessel?

A. 2 - ratings and officers
B. 2 - crew and officers
C. 3 - engine dept, deck dept & saloon or steward dept.		aaaaaaaaa

Q. What is the least a person should do before entering machinery spaces?

A. Wear appropriate personal protective equipment  	aaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Inform the bridge
C. Inform his superiors


Q. The pivoting point of a fully loaded vessel with normal trim proceeding ahead at sea speed is_____.

A. Right at the bow
B. One-third the length of the vessel from the bow		aaaaaaaa
C. One-half the length of the vessel from the bow
D. Two-thirds the length of the vessel from the bow

Q. The beam of a vessel refers to the_____.

A. Depth between decks
B. Internal cubic capacity
C. Moulded depth of the vessel		aaaaaaaa
D. Width of the vessel

Q. What is the least you must do before entering a cofferdam in the engine room?

A. Open up the manhole and enter the cofferdam
B. Complete an enclosed space checklist		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Enter the cofferdam and simultaneously start ventilation

Q. A vessel traveling down a narrow channel, especially if the draft is nearly equal to the depth of the water, may set off the nearer side. This effect is known as_____.

A. Smelling the bottom
B. Squatting
C. Bank suction
D. Bank cushion 		aaaaaaaa

Q. Container are loaded on board a gear-less cellular container ship by

A. Union purchase
B. Derricks
C. Floating cranes
D. Shore gantry cranes		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Freeboard is measured from the upper edge of the_____.

A. Bulwark
B. Deck line		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Gunwale bar
D. Sheer strake

Q. What term indicates an inward curvature of the ship's hull above the waterline?

A. Camber
B. Tumble home		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Deadrise
D. Flare

Q. Identify “23” in the figure given below.

A. Bollard
B. Hatch
C. Bilge keel 		aaaaaaaaa

Q. What does the sound of an alarm signify to a watchstander?

A. Pre-warning of an abnormality		aaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Man overboard
C. Fire on board
D. Drill

Q. What must the watchstanding engineer do periodically while on watch?

A. Take routine rounds of the engine room		aaaaaaaaaa
B. Stand his/her watch
C. Conduct repairs of any damaged equipment

Q. What is the primary risk when working in enclosed spaces?

A. Hypothermia
B. Lack of oxygen		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Claustrophobia
D. Egress from that space


Q. What does PPE stand for?

A. Personal Protection Eyewear
B. Personal Padded Equipment
C. Personal Protection Equipment		aaaaaaaaa
D. Protection for Personal Equipment

Q. You lose track while writing on a particular topic. Your message lacks:

A. Completeness
B. Correctness
C. Consistency		aaaaaaa
D. Clarity

Q. What you should maintain with your audience.?

A. Body language
B. Eye contact		aaaaaaaaa
C. Communication

Q. Frequent interruptions on the part of the speaker can

A. Lead to effective listening
B. Have importance in listening
C. Impede listening		aaaaaaaaa

Q. What speed should a ship be doing to comply with COLREG?

A. A safe speed at all times		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. A safe speed at some times
C. A safe speed only one time when ship starts
D. A safe speed only one time when departure


Q. The rudder is tried out from

A. Starboard 15"
B. Mid ship
C. Steering flat		aaaaaaaaaaa
D. Port 5"

Q. _____ held apart when standing indicates relaxed pose and also signals confidence.

A. Arms
B. Hands
C. Legs 		aaaaaa

Q. You tend to give lengthy explanations for simple things. You message lacks:

A. Conciseness		aaaaaaaaaaa
B. Correctness
C. Consistency
D. Clarity

Q. Our bodily actions are equally strong as our _____ that we use in communication.

A. Words		aaaaaaaaa
B. Voice
C. Actions

Q. Who picks up the pilot who is on his way to the ship?

A. Chief Officer
B. Third Engineer
C. Second Officer
D. Third Officer		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. Smiling face indicates friendly nature of his _____.

A. Speech
B. Activities
C. Character		aaaaaaa

Q. What is the basic duty of a bridge watchkeeper?

A. To keep track with other ship
B. To keep a lookout		aaaaaaaaa
C. To keep a sight at sea
D. To keep track by hearing

Q. The Third Officer informs the _____ to lift the gangway clear of the jetty.

A. Third Mate
B. Third Engineer
C. Chief officer
D. Bosun		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. _____ denotes the capacity of an individual to record, retain and reproduce the same information.

A. Brain
B. Memory		aaaaaaaaa
C. Data

Q. Non-verbal communication is the world _____ words.

A. Behind
B. Beyond		aaaaaaaa
C. Front of

Q. Body language includes a person's eye contact, smile, frown etc., that convey_____.

A. Information
B. Messages		aaaaaaa
C. Content

Q. When thoughts and ideas are expressed clearly and succinctly in writing,

A. The reader learns writing easily
B. The reader finds difficulty in reading
C. The reader cannot understand the message
D. The reader is able to understand the message and the intent of the writer		aaaaaaaa

Q. When you learn to pay_____ to body language, you can understand what the other person is trying to convey.

A. Attention		aaaaaaaa
B. Impression
C. Importance


Q. If there is a severe weather the ships have to

A. Move fast and alter course
B. Slow down and should not altor course
C. Slow down or alter course			aaaaaaaa
D. Movefast and should notalter course


Q. Why is it necessary to prepare a comprehensive repair specification?

A. For giving required inputs to the shipyard/drydock to correctly estimate the cost and time for submitting their offer and carry out repairs		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. For giving required inputs to the ship staff to raise suitable requisitions for additional crew required for supervision of the project
C. For giving required inputs to the classification society so that they can depute a suitable surveyor to inspect the repairs at the shipyard/drydock
D. For giving required inputs to the shipyard/drydock to correctly prepare their work completion certificates

Q. Which trait helps speakers to understand that they are being listened to?

A. Ask appropriate questions
B. Maintain eye - Contact		aaaaaaaaa
C. Watch for feelings
D. React responsively


Q. Whom does the Chief Officer instruct to single up to two lines forward and two lines aft.

A. Bosun		aaaaaaaaa
B. Buson
C. Basum

Q. During bad weather it is

A. Easy to cook
B. Difficult to cook		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. No possibility to cook

Q. Speaker's _____ mannerisms can be distracting for the listener

A. Questioning
B. Doubts clarifying
C. Responding to your question
D. Fidgeting		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Who communicates with the Port control about the Ship's arrival?

A. Master
B. Chief Engineer
C. Chief officer		aaaaaaaaa
D. Superintendent

Q. Non-verbal communication is the _____ of message other than verbal or written.

A. Distribution
B. Transmission		aaaaaaaa
C. Submission

Q. If the relative bearing is steady there is _____

A. No risk of collision
B. A risk of collision		aaaaaaaaaa
C. No change in the radar

Q. The Engine room must be kept _____ for manoeuring preparations

A. Manned  	aaaaaaaaaa
B. Cleaned
C. Opened
D. Closed

Q. Non-verbal communication helps you to make a first _____ the best.

A. Behavior
B. Mannerism
C. Impression		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. Who will ensure the necessary precautions in the engine room?

A. Chief Officer
B. Chief Engineer		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Second Engineer
D. Cadets

Q. Fill in the correct word. I was _____the television, when the bell rang.

A. Seeing
B. Looking at
C. Watching		aaaaaaaaaa
D. Visualising

Q. Who checks the accommodation part?

A. Chief officer
B. Third officer
C. Second officer		aaaaaaaaa

Q. Who instructs the Bosun to single up to two lines forward and two lines aft?

A. Chief Engineer
B. Chief Officer		aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Third Officer
D. Third Engineer

Q. When you communicate with your client, always do more _____ than talking.

A. Reading
B. Writing
C. Listening		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. The main difference between listening and hearing is:

A. Listening is conscious and hearing is mechanical		aaaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Listening is natural and hearing is physical
C. Listening is mechanical and hearing is normal
D. Listening is conscious and hearing is effortless

Q. Non-verbal communication is an inevitable part of ou_____.

A. Personality		aaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Face
C. Body


Q. The problem of misunderstanding can be eliminated by providing _____ to the clients, while explaining the process.

A. Examples		aaaaaaaaa
B. Theories
C. Sample

Q. Name the two officers Who liaise with each other to try out the Steering gear.

A. Chief Engineer & Chief Officer
B. Second Engineer & Second Officer
C. Third Engineer & Third Officer		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. What does the word RADAR mean?

A. Radio Detection and Ranging.		aaaaaaaaaaaa
B. Radio Direction and Ranging.
C. Radio Detection and Range.
D. Radium Detection and Ranging.

Q. Pushing the shoulders_____and the chest_____demonstrates power.

A. Front, in
B. Side, tilted
C. Back, out		aaaaaaaaa

Q. Barriers to good communication result

A. Because of the receiver's fault
B. From encryption and decryption of information in the process of communication
C. From poor coding and decoding of information in the process of communication.		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. Reading the draft is done

A. After loading
B. Before loading
C. During the loading		aaaaaaaaa
D. Before and after unloading

Q. _____ look conveys that the person is in serious mood.

A. Stern		aaaaaaaaa
B. Stern
C. Stubborn
D. Angered

Q. What does the Master do before he retires for the night?

A. Writes the instructions in Night Order Book and gets the signature of the officers.		aaaaaaaaaa
B. Writes the communication in Night Order Book.
C. Writes the Night Order Book and gets the signature of the officers.
D. Writes the Night Order Book and gets the signature.

Q. People don't get what you are saying. It means that your message lacks:

A. Clarity		aaaaaaaaa
B. Completeness
C. Consistency

Q. After the receiver receives the message, he/she shall give_____.

A. Feedback		aaaaaaa
B. Suggestions
C. Clues

Q. A telephone in poor working condition creates

A. Subjective stress
B. Environmental stress
C. Mechanical barrier		aaaaaaaaa
D. Ignorance of media

Q. What is the minimum number of two way GMDSS radio telephones to be carried in a survival craft?

A. Atleast four two-way radio telephones
B. At least three two-way radio telephones		aaaaaaaa
C. Atleast one two-way radio telephone

Q. When using a handheld smoke signal aboard a survival craft, you should activate the signal_____.

A. On the upwind side of the craft
B. Inside the craft
C. At the stern of the craft
D. On the downwind side of the craft		aaaaaaaa

Q. IAMSAR provide guidelines for a common aviation and maritime approach to organizing and providing_____services.

A. Oil spill clean up
B. Search and Rescue		aaaaaaaaaaaa
C. Salvage

Q. MOB marker when activated emits:

A. Yellow smoke for 15 minutes
B. Orange smoke for 3 minutes
C. Orange smoke for 15 minutes		aaaaaaaaa
D. Yellow smoke for 3 minutes

Q. If you wished to transmit a message by voice concerning the safety of navigation, you would preface it by the word_____

A. Mayday
B. Pan-pan
C. Securite		aaaaaaaaaaaa
D. Safety

Q. After having activated the emergency position indicating radio beacon(EPRIB), you should_____.

A. Turn it off for five minutes every half-hour
B. Turn it off and on at five minute intervals
C. Turn it off during daylight hours
D. Leave it on continuously		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. Who is responsible for lowering the lifeboat?

A. Roustabout
B. First man aboard
C. Last man aboard
D. Helmsman		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. The signal to guide vessels in distress, which indicates, "This is the best place to land" is the_____

A. Horizontal motion of a white flag
B. Letter K in Morse code given by light		aaaaaaaaaaa
C. Code flag S as a hoist
D. Firing of a white star signal

Q. The searchlight's power source must be capable of operating the light without charging or recharging for not less than

A. 3 hours of continuous operation		aaaaaaaaa
B. 5 hours of continuous operation
C. 4 hours of continuous operation
D. 6 hours of conitinuous operation


Q. Every lifebuoy shall have an outer diameter of not more than

A. 500 mm
B. 600 mm
C. 700 mm
D. 800 mm		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. You are in a survival craft broadcasting a distress message. What information would be essential to your rescuers?

A. The nature of the distress
B. The time of day
C. Your radio call sign
D. Your position by latitude and longitude		aaaaaaaaaaa

Q. The distress signals, required to be kept in a lifeboat are

A. Rocket parachutes + Hand flares+ Smoke signals		aaaaaaa
B. Rocket parachutes + Hand flares
C. Hand flares
D. Smoke signals + Line throwing apparatus

Q. During an abandonment or drill, the first person to arrive at the survival craft should _____.

A. Pass out food and water to personnel
B. Open the doors and start the sprinkler system
C. Activate the emergency release handle
D. Open the doors and prepare the craft for boarding		aaaaaaaaaa

Q. The self activating smoke signal burns for:

A. 9 minutes
B. 12 minutes
C. 15 minutes		aaaaaaaaa
D. 18 minutes

Q. Which of the listed precautions should be taken when testing a line throwing gun?

A. Never test the rocket with the service line attached.		aaaaaaaaa
B. Fire it at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the horizon.
C. Wear asbestos gloves.

Q. The thermal protective aid does not provide

A. Ventilation
B. Flotation		aaaaaaaaa
C. Hydration
D. Oxygen

Q. What is the maximum length of time that distress flares are approved for?

A. 1 and 1/2 years
B. 2 years
C. 3 and 1/2 years		aaaaaaaaa
D. 5 years

Q. Red parachute flares are called

A. Flare technics
B. Pyrotechnics		aaaaaaaaaa
C. Light technics
D. Fire technics

